Nice to meet you.
yeah um so. My name is [name]. I grew up around Cleveland Ohio in the suburbs. I went to school at the Ohio State University. I graduated in 2015 and then I took a couple years off where I worked in a medical lab, processing specimens at the Ohio State Western Medical Center for a couple years. And then I went to grad school at the University of Pittsburgh for a masters of health administration and that wrapped April 2020, which was a great time to enter the job market. I'm ethnically half Chinese, half Filipino, but both my parents grew up in the Philippines, so I guess culturally Filipino. Three older siblings, me and my next brother were born in the States and my two older siblings were born abroad, and so they went through the whole integration process, but I never had to deal with it. Does that cover I guess what you're looking for?
uh I consider myself first generation. Because I have to me I think first generation is supposed to be after immigration, but then I know people have told me otherwise, but then people have also told me like the same way I'm conceptualizing it, so I don't really know, but I usually just say first gen.
mm hmm.
I’m trying to make sure that it would be fine to say. So I work for health, I work for the Veterans Affairs Department like the Veterans Health Administration. There's a research center here at the University of Pittsburgh campus and it's called the Center for Health Equity Research and Promotion. I'm working as a research coordinator. And since I graduated in April 2020, they onboarded me virtually, and so I was on site, maybe for like a week, because you can't technically work from home until they like approve all your documentation and your trainings are done. And since then I've been like 99% work from home. Lately I've been trying to go back once a week because, like all of our team tries to go back on Tuesdays, so that we can have meetings and actually like hang out together and eat lunch together and stuff like that. But it's been pretty good. I mean it's interesting because just compared to what I hear from other people who are also working remotely, they'll say like ‘You know it's weird because I had these meetings with like 10 people and, like no one's cameras are ever on.’ And I'm like that's so weird, because how would they ever know where you are, though? Which I guess some people, they don't really ever have to, but like at least the culture and in the VA, everyone's cameras are just on, like we're just excited to see each other, I guess. Which I don't know if that's weird but it's kind of nice because looking at like black screens across the board is so uninviting I guess. But yeah I like it there, it's nice. They take pretty good care of me, in my opinion.
yeah so um so I work for two different bosses, like 20 hours a week each. One of them is a lot more administrative like for IRBs, so I take care of his are his IRBs, I format his manuscripts, I prepare his presentations that he gives. Now he's been traveling, giving more presentations in person again, like for conferences and things like that. For him it's kind of like a ‘Hey [Participant 28], I need something done, do you think you can get to it?’ It's kind of a lot more loosely structured, I guess. And then for my other PI, she runs high risk projects that are technically quality improvement for high risk veterans that are finding care in like the primary care setting. So a lot of that is like making agendas for meetings and then disseminating the minutes. Sub-management of a national investigator network to pull together people with similar interests to be able to have presentations and coordinating those. Making sure people are getting their analytical needs met. It's a lot more people focused and a lot of individual interaction, I think, and a lot of asking for things.
Like a like an eight, I think.
yeah I would say it's pretty good. The only thing is, and this is pretty nuanced, but like there's always going to be a veteran preference for things. Like if you're applying for a job in the VA, up to a certain point, the veteran preference will always like add so many points to an application that it kind of pushes me out of the running. Up to like a certain experience point, or like when a degree is like absolutely necessary, you can't really say like well the veteran should win out for that. But I knew that going into it, so I wasn't really surprised, it was just something that I always had to keep in mind. And that maybe kind of hurts like my ideas of how long I'll be here like at the VA in general but. Like the benefits are always good. I think the pay is fair and the people are really like high quality.
So it's usually coworkers. It's usually more front loaded in the beginning of the week so there'll be like three meetings on Monday, at least, and then there's usually one on Monday and maybe one or two on Thursday. And they're actually like mostly with the same people but, just talking about different projects and what we're trying to do. The end of our fiscal year is coming up in like the next 60 days, so there's a lot of reporting that we have to give to like our funding body to prove that we're doing what we said we would, and that our funding is still going to be good for like the fiscal year in October 1. So that's what we're trying to wrap our heads around, and so it just kind of puts a lot more meetings in the books but it's always with like my same supervisor, so we're just like ‘Oh, we're here together again.’ But just talking about something different. And we have a good relationship like working and I guess like as friendly as you can get in a work setting.
So the age range is interesting. So for one of my PIs, I have a male PI and a female PI. And my male PI, I think he's seven or eight years older than me, we're both really cordial and we have shared personal information like he knows about my partner, and I know about his, on some level. And we hit it off pretty well, I think we're pretty casual each other. And then my female PI, I'm not sure how much older than me she is, maybe 10 years, and then my supervisor above me for her team, I think she's also like 10 to 15 years older. And then the other research coordinators or assistants that are under the female PI that are kind of like my level, they’re around my age, but younger. So I feel like I'm more likely to consider the ones on my same level, like in the structure organizational structure to be my friends. I would consider my main supervisor for my female PI as a friend because we check in with each other every week, and she is the one that dictates like the priorities for the week. So if anything happens that would kind of make me lose focus, like if I'm having a personal issue, I would tell her to be like ‘Hey, I'm all good for putting in 20 hours, but I'm going to be working at like 60% because like I'm having other things going on and I just can't really focus at work that much.’ And she’d be like ‘Okay that's cool, you know, just let me know if you need help getting through anything. I think really it's important to get through like the first two of these priorities, and then the rest can wait, if you had to prioritize and just make sure that you're good and taking care of yourself.’ And that always build a lot of rapport with me too.
So it's interesting because like as a research center dedicated to health equity research, I think the atmosphere is pretty liberal, to start with. And we have these like equity capacity building coordination meetings that happen I think every month and they're about a selected topic for health equity, usually around veterans so like disaggregating and presenting like race and ethnic data, since the older veteran population is pretty white, but like the younger and more recent veterans are a lot more diverse like in sexual orientation and race, and there's a lot more females becoming veterans and serving. But then it's like well if you're doing research with the older population, all the other like ethnic minorities always just get rolled into other besides maybe African American, and is that okay, and is that ethical and how do we best like our represent things like that. And it's interesting to see like an honest attempt to driving an equitable research dissemination. And it makes me feel comfortable because I'm like ‘Oh, that would be me. Like, if I were a veteran, I would be in that other group.’ And then just see people really having honest discourse about being like ‘I've always had this question and I don't know what the answer is,’ and it's so nice to just be able to talk about it. I’ve spoken to people in the past who have worked there longer than me—like I just had my two year mark a few months ago—and they would say that they have gotten microaggressions before, as an African American doctorate student, I think. Um but I never got like from who, like how high, where in the organizational structure it happened, like from the top or a coworker, even level, or their PI. But I feel like I haven't particularly had anything microaggressive happen to me and I can't tell if it just because, like, there was turnover already. Because the coordinators tend to turn over like relatively quickly, just because there's not really as much of like a ladder to climb there, unless you get like more education. But overall, I feel pretty supported like—I can't tell if it's because I don't ask much of my work environment and because my work environment is like kind of more home based, but I feel pretty good there.
yeah so. My male PI, he's black. I think he's the only black PI researcher in our research center. And then I'm his main research admin and I’m Asian American. His main analyst is Asian American and his mentor team that consists of maybe like six or seven people are all white presenting. And I think one is white presenting, but like Middle Eastern, just based on the name. And then for my female PI she is white, my supervisor between her and me is white. The other research assistant that's on my level is White, and then the other research assistant that's on my level is um I think she's mixed, white/African American.
I think not that I can discern. There was a topic when, it must have been like a year ago at this point, but when the popular media started picking up about how Asian American violence had ticked up a lot. That was the topic for like the equity capacity building coordination for that month or the next month, and they asked me for insight or anything that if I wanted to like add into the conversation beforehand, which was pretty nice. And it made sense to me at the time, and we had a couple other female analysts and they gave their input, maybe it's just because they were more senior, they just happened to have more consideration but I didn't really hold it as anything that was like a power differential or, like any slight towards me by it by any means.
um so I'm drinking tea and I can't tell if it's like messing with my throat, but when I said it, and then I like remembered all those emotions like back then, I kind of got a little throat chokey.
At the time I didn't think I was that worried about it because I feel safe. So I live in Pittsburgh now, I feel pretty safe here and my partner, if I'm ever out with my partner, like I feel very comfortable because, if anyone did mess with us, he's a very like big guy and so I'm like ‘No one's going to mess with you, which means no one’s going to mess with me, it's fine.’ But I did worry about like my sister and my mom because I think a lot of the violence was like female focused. So that always got me really worried. But nothing has happened to them. But I think the consideration of just having it at the forefront is emotionally taxing every day.
I think during that meeting that they asked for input, they hold space for it. It's complicated because for political issues for things like the Dobbs decision for abortion where they overturn roe V Wade, we made a chat on like our teams and was like, ‘Hey, you know if anyone just wants to really quickly, like we can hold space to help people kind of process what's happening, and let us know what resources there are out there and we want to see how you're doing.’ We finished it and then in the next heartbeat afterwards we were like ‘Oh, we shouldn't have done that, on the VA side, we should have moved into the university side,’ because everything in the VA is like subject to discovery. Like if someone wanted to ask us all for all our chat transcripts, they probably could like within reason and so just political things you know is just now in like the public record officially. So I think it makes some people weary about what they say at all in writing and I get emails and things like that. I don't know if that answered your question because I now forgot what it was.
So it's um—when I think about other research coordinators, they're usually around my age. I could think of one that is a lesbian and I think she identifies as a female. I could think of another who uses he/they pronouns and is a trans man. And I identify as a gay male, like Asian American male. And so it's nice to have that representation up front. We also used to have a researcher, I think that used to do a lot of like queer/gay/lesbian research for veterans, and so it was nice to kind of have that as like a quality indicator for me. To be like you know I can just be my whole self, it'll be fine. I have some like imposter syndrome things in general that kind of hamper how I interact with people, especially when there's a power differential. But I guess I consciously try to work through that like on the day to day. But it feels like a safe place where I can like process things as I go. And where I like, when I sit down and think about it, no one has like a double agenda when they're asking me things, or when they need something for me. They are just genuinely asking like what's up, I'm not trying to catch you do anything wrong, I just want to like catch up in general.
So my cubicle is right next to like our center director's office, like 20 meters, maybe. And if he walks out of his office and looks like to the right, you would just kind of be looking right into my cubicle and almost looking directly at me. So he'll stop by to like say hi and everything, and I get so nervous because I just don't know what I'm supposed to say or how I'm supposed to say anything to him. And it just makes me double guess everything that I'm going to say to him, like ‘Oh, if I say something too casual, then he may be like ‘Oh [Participant 28] is too casual like he must not have the professional like chops down or standards to be able to work here properly, but that's fine whatever will just accept him as he is.’ But like, no one has indicated that that is how anyone would consider me, and I clearly got the job, so I am qualified to work here. But a lot of things that I do, I second guess, and then it has at times hampered how well the workflow goes. Like if I ask someone to go ‘Hey can you double check this?’ And they were like ‘Yeah it was fine, I don't know why you waited so long to ask me.’ Then like a whole week would have gone by where we could have gotten something submitted earlier like for a manuscript or something. And It gets kind of trippy but I like try to talk it over with my supervisors afterwards, to be like ‘Hey I'm sorry that happened, I think I was just confused about whether like this was good enough or if you wanted to double check because like your names on it, too, and I put my edits but like they're not on the same level as yours because you're a doctor.’ And so it just got kind of, they're like ‘No, no, no it's fine, it's cool just like communicate with me regularly you don't need to like grade yourself like that.’ So, yeah.
If I do it's usually with people on the same level as me like in the organizational chart like, especially if they're under my female PI, we have had turnover under her where they're like ‘Oh I got lucky, because I have a supervisor between me and the PI, most people just work like directly with her.’ And I've constantly heard like ‘Oh you're really lucky, and you have [name]’ who is my supervisor/intermediary because sometimes the PI will ask for things but either like doesn't completely phrase what she needs or what she wants, and so you're kind of like I kind of get you want like 80% of the way and the other 20%, I don't know if that's just like the onus is on me to figure it out, or if I'm supposed have 100% of the information, or if it's just like this is just how things go and the other 20% is just supposed to be kind of like subjective and show that you have drive. And then things will up for review and be like ‘Oh what do you think of this?’ And then maybe it's just the way he speaks like she’s like ‘Oh um you know I thought last time we spoke, we said it would be like this.’ Which maybe she might think softens the impact of what otherwise she would have said. Like the message to me is: ‘Oh, that's wrong, here's how we can make it better.’ But when I hear that, I think of, ‘Oh, you must have misinterpreted or not listened to when I was telling you what I wanted and so let's reorient towards what I had told you to do.’ And that's just my interpretation. I don't know if that's how a lot of people took it, but the last couple of people who left were like ‘Yeah that's how I took it.’ Things get close to her expectations but they're never good enough, which is difficult to work with, but she manages so many projects that she only ever sees like the top level of everything, she doesn't always get the context of why things are why they are where they are.
um, I am very emotional like and emotionally communicative. I have been trying to be more careful about who I share it with because I always thought it was a strength to be vulnerable and to be open with people, which is fair to a degree, but that also assumes that everybody around you has like your best intentions, at heart, and that they're not going to misuse any information that you would ever give them. Which I realize is like idealistic to assume that and so I'm trying to kind of dial back who I share with and how much. But I'll always share with my partner, first and foremost, part of it is because he's my partner and the other part is like well he's removed from the work situation, so he's not always going to remember who I'm talking about, but like his opinion on who sucks and who doesn't suck doesn't really matter because he's never going to meet them. But I would say I grew up like very emotionally in touch like me and my sister and my mom, and then my brothers and my dad are not as communicative about it.
I do. I think people have made honest attempts to hold open spaces, like in our teams to be able to say, like because the abortion thing was one, and then the Asian American violence was one. There was a personal issue I was going through back in May where I was feeling really anxious for like a few weeks, and it was disrupting working and it was disrupting personal life for a while. And when I talked to my supervisor I'm like ‘I'm good, I’m having like social anxiety and it's disrupting my work and I can't focus, and I keep painting my apartment and like it it's just a lot of psychological things going on.’ And she was like ‘Okay well don't forget that you have personal days you can take and, ideally, we would know like in an much advance as you can give us, but if you need to take a day off, if you take more than a day off, then we'll manage, you know, we'll figure it out and then when you come back, we'll just catch you up and then everything will be good.’ And I was really hesitant about telling my supervisor that at first, but after I got that response I'm like okay, so I did it out of necessity because I was like crashing and if I didn't get things done that week, it would just look bad if she didn't know. So I just told her because she would have full context to at least know like ‘Okay, so he’s just slow this week because of like real life stuff going on.’ And then with my male PI, we've been connecting on more personal things in that like I'm moving to LA because my partner and moved to Pittsburgh for me, and so now that we're both finishing up school, the plan has always been to go to LA. Ironically, his partner is also from LA and she hates it in Pittsburgh—my partner also hates it in Pittsburgh—because the atmosphere isn't really what they wanted and the diversity is not really there. And so he's like ‘[Participant 28] I'm moving to LA.’ And I'm like ‘Are you just telling this to me because you know I'm moving too?’ And he's like ‘That's kind of part of it, but I would like want you to keep working with me.’ And so, that was a huge like emotional boost, I think, because I always question if I'm like doing enough for him. Even though I get like what he wants done, mostly on time, and if that's really all you want to ask for me for work, then like yeah I check all those boxes, but. It was like fulfilling to hear that you want to continue working with me and stuff but, so I guess I have personal relationships with my direct contacts, like with my supervisor on the female PI side and then like with my male PI directly.
Um in the past, like um just in this position or like in general?
Okay, so I would say I'm a lot more emotionally stable now. I've never been clinically diagnosed with anything but I think I just had a lot of mental/emotional things going on that would just like not really get dealt with until like a crisis was happening. So there was that anxiety thing I mentioned in May that happened like in this research coordinator position. That was all only happening like from home and like I wasn't really going back once a week back into the office, and so I would say that would probably cover for that one. In the job when I was in the lab, which was probably like 2015/2016, maybe some 2017, I was not as emotionally unstable and I wasn't with my partner yet and he's been a very stabilizing force for me and there were times at work, where I was like ‘Okay, just don't cry at work, it's not going to be cool if you start crying at work.’ And I would just carry baggage with me like a lot of the time, but I wouldn't say it was work related, but it was distracting me at work.
Some people say like just check it at the door and I'm like, can people really do that? Like can you do that? Some things you can probably put out of your mind, but I can't just turn off the way my body's reacting to how my mind is like stimulating it. It just doesn't work for me, it's never worked for me.
So I think I've gotten lucky, because both work environments are, to my opinion, they're fairly casual. Healthcare administration typically is pretty conservative, but the lab is like separated from the rest of the hospital kind of. And research is generally more casual than like administration strictly, like directors of operations, stuff like that. So I did feel comfortable in the lab. I would talk to my supervisor, because we also had a rapport and the age gap was maybe like four or five years, so it didn't feel that large, but you know, I would bring up a topic, and then we would be open to discussing it and, like my whole lab would be like ‘Oh yeah that's interesting,’ and they would kind of throw in their two cents. And we would always talk about our partners and, like what's pissing us off that week and things like that. And it was honestly like a therapy session, whenever anyone wanted to bring anything out. And we would still get work done, it's just kind of mindless work, so you can kind of do things at the same time. But more than a few times, things were like kind of serious. Like they got people overdosing from drugs and like opiates and stuff like that. I think suicide came up a couple times. Whichever supervisor was there would be like ‘I don't know what you're talking about this,’ but with us like in our own bubble it worked for us so. It was okay to bring up like emotional stuff as long as you just kind of held it together.
I would probably excuse myself to go to the bathroom if I thought I needed more time than I would probably ask someone that I trusted on the shift or my supervisor to be like ‘Hey, something's happening, can I be back in like 20 minutes or like 10 minutes. Do you need to know more?’ And she was like ‘Yeah,’ and it's like ‘Okay look, I will just tell you straight up like I'm going to go cry in the bathroom and get some water and just like relax because something's happening.’ And then she would say like ‘Okay, do you feel like you're good like you're safe and when you come back, you'll be okay?’ And I’d be like ‘Yeah, yeah, yeah I think I just need that and a snack and then we're going to be good.’ So I think it was fine within reason like, I didn't have to do that, but I feel like that is a realistic scenario in how she would react.
Okay, so at the lab I worked a split shift, so I worked like three hours on the first shift and then five hours on second shift, which meant that I essentially worked under two supervisors, but my main supervisor was like the second shift supervisor because I worked under her like percentage-wise more. And the first shift supervisor, tenured is probably not the right word, because I know that's like for academic appointment, but she has she has her seniority. And to me she wasn't a great supervisor. I wouldn't say she played favorites but she maybe got comfortable with where she was at, and it would make me very mad because I'm like ‘Oh dude I'm like breaking a sweat legitimately at work and I'm hauling ass and she never left her seat, like it's pissing me off. And I was like speaking very negatively of her while she was like there like not in front of her but kind of in front of her like to the side to other coworkers and things like that. And there was a time where I worked at a summer camp for like K-8 over, it was like for inner city kids and we were doing like math and like gym and stuff like that—it was kind of like an enrichment program, reading I guess. And one of the kids like a year later ended up killing themselves, and so I went to his funeral and I emailed my first and second shift supervisor like ‘Hey, I don't think it's going to go into the second shift really, but I'm not going to be there for maybe an hour or  two, like into my split shifts because I'm going to a funeral.’ And I knew I had to bring a program, I knew I had to prove that I had actually gone to it. But one of my coworkers still called me at 11am and was like, ‘Hey it's like 11:20, are you coming to work?’ And I had to restrain myself in my car because I'm like ‘I'm literally at a funeral.’ Like I told the supervisor well in advance, at least a week and a half, that I'm going to be here and she still either forgot or how the audacity to make sure I got checked up on, and she was still there, so she was like ‘Hey, can someone call [Participant 28],’ I'm sure of it because she didn't want—to me, it felt like she was flexing her power because she could have called me herself, but instead she's like ‘Let me get someone else to call him.’ And that was, I think I just lost all rapport for her after that, it was kind of rough. And I think we didn't get along because she would do things by the book, but sometimes things by the book are like the safest way and not the highest quality way to get things done. And doing things by the book sometimes we would impact patient care negatively. So you're not required to go above and beyond, but if you wanted to you could. And so sometimes she wouldn't go above and beyond, she was just do things by the book. And sometimes being able to go above and beyond is just making a phone call and I think it's like immoral to delay patient care because you wanted to play the safe route, even though they both safe, like you just did what was required of you are then you were done. And I try not to express negative emotions in the workplace that much, which is how I was at a like a pretty bad point with her, because I was shit talking to her during the shift while she was there. But it was hard—like it's hard to see someone not working as much as you are, in my opinion, and like everyone else around you is hauling ass and there's a power differential of you looking like you're not as working hard, but then it's also layered on top of being like well you're the supervisor, so it just colors how I perceive you even more.
No um the supervisors of every shift would have a huddle, I think every week, maybe, and so I don't think she would have brought it up to me directly, she would have brought it up like to the supervisor huddle and to the lab director. But to me, nothing came of it directly. Like she never came to me to speak to me directly, or anything like that.
I don't think so, nothing's really coming to mind right now.
I'm 30.
um. I guess culturally Filipino American but ethnically I would say I'm Chinese Filipino.
He/his.
yeah suburban Cleveland, Ohio.
yeah I haven't well. Okay, so the chat if that works. perfect.
yeah hopefully it. is useful.
Okay, because I was gonna say i'm in like a qualitative study and we're about to do a quote another qualitative study. Oh yeah and. The coding and how you put it together and then you write it is so like masters photo and whoever does qualitative research it's just so. yeah.
So my mail API is he's trying to enlighten racial and ethnic health disparities in the VA by looking at how veterans with atrial fibrillation are prescribed like blood thinners appropriately. And so we found a racial disparity in I think in getting anticoagulation and then of people who got to anticoagulation who is getting like the most novel therapies that are have established to be better quality. Because it's either that like a daily pill, or you take warfarin but then you have to come in all the time to like at your INR just to make sure it's being therapeutic and so there's no reason to be on warfare and and not on this other. type of medication, but if. More more ethnic minorities are so then now we're trying to do interviews with veterans admin and. providers they'd be like what do you think would help close the gap. From like the patient and structural perspective. and develop like a strategic implementation for closing the gap so it's exciting but. yeah that's awesome that seems really important. yeah hopefully and that's what we're hoping for.
of course
Is there any of like an age range that you're looking at cover.
yeah. and consent doc. So i'll just see you, I guess, if someone comes up.
yeah take care.