Sure, my name is [Participant 11] born raised in Southern California. I am uh 27 years old. Um I went to school, at [high school] then went to UC Irvine for four years, majored in chemical engineering and right out of college, I went to go work for a startup company called Meshanum Health, where they focused on trying to develop a continuous glucose monitor. And I was there for almost five years and then I switched over to Edward’s Lifesciences.
Oh at both companies, I was an engineer. Um at Meshanum, I was an R&D slash process engineer, and now at uh Edward’s Lifesciences, I am a R&D supply and development engineer.
yeah, sure. So right now my uh responsibilities as an R&D supply and development engineer is to pretty much be the liaison between the internal R&D team at Edward’s and with the external suppliers. So, there's a lot of miscommunication that typically happens, but that's why I have my job that I am. I have constant meetings with them to make sure that the parts that they bring back—that they ship back to Edward’s is up to spec and meets all the engineering requirements that we would like to the parts to have.
sure Edward’s Lifesciences, is a pretty large medical device company. I believe I saw a slide where it said it has over 15,000 employees now. I also heard a statistic that they may have the largest campus in Southern California, I did not that fact check that, but they're really large company. They focus—their bread and butter is heart valves, so they focus on uh heart valve replacement, heart valve therapy. So essentially when there's AR, like cyanosis, calcification of your leaflets in any of the four valves, they have a certain therapy to either replace it or to uh repair it. But they also have other business units, such as the critical care, where they focus on like monitoring devices for physicians. But, along with their heart valve replacement, is they do it via transcatheter approach, where they go up your transfemoral artery, or vain, into your heart versus open heart surgery.
sure uh people I work with uh, wait can you clarify the question?
Um sure, right now, they are colleagues. I haven't gotten any to any suppliers, yet, so I haven't really seen um the clients, in terms of that aspect, so everyone I work with is like my direct team members all working together on the same project.
yeah um.
Sure, I would say on my direct team um the average age is probably around low—maybe mid to high 30s, I would say that's probably the average. I would say everyone's pretty young actually on my direct team. In terms of race, I would say it's pretty diverse, actually, there are maybe a handful of Asians, a decent amount of Indians, and, of course, a lot of Caucasians as well.
Um I would say it’s pretty even. I guess just knowing what I know about demographics and engineering, I was still say it's probably more male dominant, but I can't really uh think of exactly if it is the dominant or not. It's pretty even within my direct team, but I guess within Edward’s as a whole, it’s probably at least somewhat skewed towards males.
Sure, so I've been at my company—I just I just started March 28th actually, so I’m a little over two months in.
So, I can't really give a entire rating on it based off a long-term experience, but off my two months, I would say I'm having a pretty good time. I knew exactly what I was—I didn't know but I assumed I knew exactly what I was getting myself into, in terms of going from a small start up to a large, very corporate America environment. And, with that in mind, it kind of meets my expectations of everyone always said, like it moves slow, it's a big corporate America company, very political, a lot of red tape. So it's just like I knew exactly what was going to come. I knew that going from a startup where you can get permission to get anything done right away to going to this big company that there's no way. So, I would say, with that in mind, I would say it's like around 8 to 9. I like it there as of right now. I've already experienced some—not hardships, hardship is probably not the right word—but in terms of like difficulty, in terms of getting things done. But other than that, like I'm having an as-expected time over at a big company um. The campus is beautiful, so that definitely helps, and helps with like some... the... maybe some of the other non-compensation benefits of being at a large company is really nice.
um. I would say in the beginning probably around like a 9. I think I really liked my previous company, towards the end, maybe around a 8. I don’t have too many bad things to say about it. The reason why I left was just because the technology wasn't working, and I spent almost five years there, so I need to cut my losses; I didn't want to spend my entire career there. I wanted to cut my losses in terms of like start something new, not just have a startup under my belt. I wasn't learning the appropriate things, because they don't necessarily care about doing the things the right way because they just want to get things done quickly to not waste investor money. And I wanted to move away from that to go to a large corporation where everything was done very structurally and uh right. So yeah, I would say, 8 to 9 at both companies. Didn’t really leave because of a non-technical reasons.
The social atmosphere...
Oh that's kinda tough, I would say it's all of the above. It really depends on, I guess what project you're on, what team you're on. All the adjectives that you just described, I would actually use all those to describe the workplace. You said uh like formal, it is formal um when it needs to be formal, it's also informal when you don't need to be formal like, in non-serious environments, when you have like a very casual one-on-ones or I mean you have lunch. But in meetings where you need to do like a technical review, or a design review, or we have to be interfacing with suppliers, then that's a very formal meeting. Um—what else did you say—fast paced, yeah, it's very fast paced in uh certain extents, in terms of making sure that bill lines are met. But in other instances, it's not fast paced, because of all the red tape you need to go through, so they try to push through the red tape as fast as possible, so it's like fast paced in that aspect, but in terms of like I guess big picture wise, it's decently slow. And then besides that, I would say it's—I think it's a pretty good environment. They kind of have a lot of amenities on the campus where they kind of allow you to like be yourself and do whatever you do. But, of course, like it is a professional environment, so you gotta stay very on top of everything and not let things slip.
Act a certain way and be myself—uh I would say, I definitely could be myself a lot more at my previous company. We were maybe around 50 to 60 people large, and I'd been there for almost five years, so I was pretty much myself um outside of meetings, of course. I feel like meetings is pretty important to like stay professional, otherwise we probably wouldn't get things done as much. But moving to a new company I'm only like two and a half months in, I definitely am not myself.  Um, and I just take that as like just the professional work environment but slowly every single day like I'm getting closer and closer to my new colleagues and becoming more and more myself. So just like a slow transition period as an awesome like look at me for five years, so it's pretty much like maybe you can say like 75/25 percent, as of right now, more like 15/85.
um. I guess just in short, not goofing up, not goofing uh around as much. Staying serious. Not throwing as many jokes as I normally would [chuckle] yeah.
um colleagues I work with right now, I would say is a very low amount of people because I just started, but I would say around 10 to 15, 15 pushing it; maybe around like 12 to 12 right now. They are serious relationships I have with them, but I feel like just with my personality, I kind of bring out more of the uh non-serious side in people that I work with, just because that's just who I am uh. So, in the beginning, it was definitely more serious, but I think I have maybe—I warmed up to them a little more and they warmed up to me and they know like they don't have to stay super professional with me they could like be casual, so I think I discarded that type of like atmosphere around people.
Definitely not discuss anything with them um. You said colleagues so like colleagues would be who I work directly with, um and as of right now, I would keep it definitely more professional... you were asking like what’s professional and it would be keeping my boundaries set, in terms of making sure that I don’t cross certain lines where I could get um—I don’t know—in trouble uh professionally, in trouble with HR. So, I definitely cannot uh—Sorry what was your question exactly again?
yeah, yeah, I definitely limit the things I discuss with people um. Until I get more comfortable with them, and vice versa.
Oh yeah, most definitely. All the time. I feel like uh you wouldn't be human if you don't do that stuff, like no matter what level, whether you’re entry, mid-level, senior executive. I feel like that just happens everywhere.
yeah still most definitely. I feek like I've already garnered those relationships, where we can vent to each other. And I feel like...
No, no you’re fine. Um, just vent about some of the work, uh certain individuals, the process that it takes to get things done, the difficulty, um management.
Sure um my manager is um Indian, around uh 50 years old. He is a senior manager right now directly um on my team, also under the same manager, she's Armenian around 34 years old um. And a few of my other teammates, another one is Indian around 50 as well, one is ugh I believe Korean low 30s, I have a few younger as well, they are uh Caucasian around maybe 23/24, and another one that's like maybe low 30s and he's also Asian too. So I would say it's a pretty decently young team and diverse in the sense that we have Caucasian and we have Asian and we have Indian. A few Hispanic workers that are maybe like a high 20s.
Oh most definitely. I’m gonna grab some water real quick. But yes, most definitely I think everything impacts how you’re viewed at work.
Sure, uh I mean just the whole I think premise that I believe in, in terms of like like uh first impressions and also just like how you look is like the same—you gotta look the part to be the part. So, I think there's just a ready set stereotypical attributes of certain individuals, of all different attributes, but it's like you're tall you’re small, you’re a male/female, you look serious, you goofy. You do your hair well, you dress appropriately, like all those certain things. I don't know if I said race in it yet, but race as well, all those certain attributes kind of feed into a certain stigma of what certain professional—or every professional has of that individual—and I was a everyone’s stigma is different. Everyone’s stigmas are different for each of those, like yes/no on each of those attributes. For me, I would think that person is X, but for you, you may think that person is Y, which is very similar to X but slightly different, I feel like that's just like how life is and everyone always has their own judgments towards certain characters. If that makes sense
Yeah, yeah, most definitely um. I would say that I've only been at Edward’s for two and a half months so far, but I definitely got more of those at my previous company. I don't know if it's because of: 1, I was there for almost five years, where I had more opportunity opportunity to get it; or 2, because it's not corporate America as much.
Exactly and we didn't even have HR for the longest time. I think when we dig HR, it was just one lady. So... I'm sure a lot more things went...
sure Uh just like something I heard, or directed at myself.
Sure uh well. I guess it's always easier to talking about myself because I hear it directly, either at me or like around me. But just at my old company, we would just be talking and then people would just throw out, “Oh this machine is Chinese,” and just automatically saying like “Oh, this is Chinese,” it already how like a certain connotation um. And I don't think I was reading too far in between the lines, because one, I don't really get offended, even me hearing that I’m like... I know it, because the fact that, like my family and friends would probably be offended because of that, like I hear it, but it doesn't really offend me. But they said it, and the way they kept talking about it was in a negative light. Another instance was, let's see, um um... a pretty funny one was—funny depending on who you talk to—was uh when we came back from the weekend I asked like, ‘What did you do?’ and then uh one of my coworkers was mentioning to me that she went clubbing at a certain event. And then she told me, like ‘Oh, how was it?’ and then she told me, ‘Oh it wasn't that great,’ and then she followed that sentence up exactly with, ‘The club was full of Asians.’ So um I think it doesn’t take a genius to realize that—or what's that property learning like in elementary, like transitive property like A=B, B= C. So, it wasn't fun, there were Asians, it wasn't fun because there were Asians. And I would say all these coworkers I would give the benefit of doubt, that they don’t intentionally mean it, but it’s just like an inherent stereotype or racism inside them for them to say it. They're saying it to me, and maybe because like I'm like fourth/fifth generation Chinese that they stay just automatically assume I’m like a white slate and I'm like not Chinese or Asian. But that’s definitely who I am, but the fact that, like they would just automatically say they don't mean no harm, but it just comes off with in a way like if I was definitely more—I don’t know, what's the right word—easily offended I could have like popped off on them and said like, ‘What you trying to say?’ But then this individual, I was decently close to so then I would like poke fun and kind of like bring it out—not bring it out—call her out on some of her things, and just for fun, and then... I don’t know it’s just like pure fun and she wasn't offended by either, but I'm just kind of giving an example of like this inherent stereotype, inherent like racism between some individuals.
Um that’s a good question, I guess my first one would be, like, cheaply made um and not the best quality, yeah. Like I have to go work with the Chinese, or like these machines are coming from China, or all the above.
What was the question sorry?
Okay, I was gonna ask you for clarification on what you meant, but then you kept talking about that. I'm assuming you're maybe talking about like the Corona virus coming from like Wuhan, China. Like anything?
Oh, yes Asians.
No, actually. I'm a bad probably uh target for that, because of the fact that I am a probably like average height male Asian, very Americanized don't have any accent, I probably have a California accent, if anything. So—or maybe I would be a good target because they could come to me and like tell me about it, like poke fun at like those people because they wouldn't think like that really affects me. But either way I didn't really hear too much, um, yeah surprisingly.
um... not too much um. I mean, it definitely didn't make me happy that some of the hate was being thrown out on Asians, or some verbal hate, some physical hate and people saying that like the Chinese are the ones that are to blame for the Covid 19. But personally, I would say that I kind of overlooked it, it didn't really affect me too much. Going back to the previous comments or like having certain things thrown out because the pandemic, no one in the professional work environment, if anything, it was more so around amongst friends. Of different like backgrounds, different Asian backgrounds, but with no ill harm intended.
yeah, yeah, we switched around March 2020. It was work from home if you can, don't go in the office unless you absolutely need to. The manager was like checking people in and out make sure that the personnel in the office was below a certain headcount, I think it was like below 10 at the peak COVID and increased to 15/20, and so on and so forth, and just allowed anyone to start coming back in. And then, after that, then it was kind of like required, not required to go, but like recommended to go in when you needed to, but I was able to finesse a role where I was like pretty much made 1-2 days in the office every single week, which was actually really nice, but then I left it.
Yes, yes, every single day. But I believe Edward’s has a policy where they recommend on site employees—so you have like three: on site employees, which is you’re onsite for at least four days a week, on average; and then they have hybrid which is like 2-3 days, and you don't have a desk, you have to sit at like a flex spot; and then remote employees where you're fully remote, and if you're on campus, you can have a flex spot. Flex spot is just like an open seat that's not dedicated anyone, and you can put it on like the website, yeah. Sorry, I lost my train of thought your question was Why exactly for the work remote.
The question is how emotional am I typically at work?
Oh that's why you say you already see it, but my answer is exactly what you already have in mind. I would say I am not too much of an emotional person. In general, I kind of—I wouldn't say I suppress it, I just typically don't physically show it too much. Uh what’s the saying go, I don't wear my heart on my sleeve type of thing. I feel like that's how I've always been, so even at work I'm kind of the same way I kind of uh if anything mask over my emotions, or what little there I have, with like more jokes and it's kind of like poking more fun in certain things.
that's a good question. Um I would definitely not say I'm a super emotional—I would definitely say I am not a super um emotional person. Probably a little bit in between, I definitely obviously do have emotions, but I have just never been someone to um like show it too outwardly to everyone. But like I mean my close friends, my girlfriend, like they definitely know, they see it, they have learned to appreciate it in different ways. And they know like when I'm feeling certain ways or not, but it definitely takes them a while to kind of like maybe warm up and like understand like how I'm feeling certain ways because I just don't like outwardly always show it.
Oh she would say no. She would definitely say no.
Oh um, I guess when you say it that way, then I would say I am emotional at work. I do like obviously get those feelings, like I do get nervous when things sometimes are due. But I guess, I would say, maybe to like less extents to like other people, I feel like I'm decently—I try to stay the course as much as possible. But yeah, I do yeah excited when things start working or when like we're able to meet a certain deadline and everyone's happy. But then, then I get frustrated, irritated when certain things happen, and then I would always go back to employees or my other colleagues about it. So, and I guess in that sense, like I do show my emotions, but I guess I'm more just like, in my head, like more objectively talking about it and just like telling them how I see it, more so than like yelling or getting angry or crying in front of people.
no, no, I don't do that. I don't yell, I don't cry, I don't get angry, really.
um the urges? I would say, maybe every now and then, but not too much. I would go with your latter statement, I'm definitely very sensible, a very logical person like I try to rationalize everything that happens, and like why people are acting certain ways. And trying to think in that sense, and not really get upset. It's like ‘Oh well, it is what it is.’
No, I think my colleagues are definitely—I guess compared to me—definitely more emotional, but I think that's probably where it makes it kind of a good balance where like they come to me and get like a very sensible, logical like reasoning or rationale or approach to things. So we kind of like balance each other out.
Um I would say those two things are different, or are you saying emotional burnout, or just burnout?
Well, I’ll take the second question first. Definitely burnout at work all the time. I feel like that happens and then you need to like take a day off, or like take a weekend to yourself, or take a long vacation. Um but emotional like burnout, um not really, I don't think so. But I think that's also because I stay the course and I uh kind of keep my emotions in check. But, if you uh let me talk to my girlfriend after this, she will she's more of the emotional one, so then she will tell you probably yes, that she feels emotional and burnout and that’s when she comes to me, and then I kind of stay like levelheaded and I help her either just listen to her, so she can just come vent to me and she doesn't necessarily want answers so I just stay quiet. I learned that the hard way but uh yeah I definitely am more reserved in like those emotional aspects.
No, no, she actually used to work at Edward’s Lifesciences but she quit in 2019. when I was still at my old company Meshnum health, where I worked with [name]. And she quit and then went to a company called Capital Group, which this is a wealth management company. She can tell you more about it after this.
um. No nothing specifically. If you have any specific questions, I am always open to answering it either now if you have it written down or on your head, but if you ever need that, reach out for anything else, I'm more than happy to like text or Facebook—facetime or zoom call, it’s already recorded too you for any additional answers you may need for your research.
No, I am always welcome, always open to it, if you need my contact extra, like more than just my email um just reach out to [name] or just email me.
Yes, SoCal, I currently reside in Brea, California—B-R-E-A, California—um and I work in Irvine California.
No, no worries we've been talking about a lot of things, I don’t expect you to memorize everything. I was born in Artesia, California, which is also SoCal and I'm born and raised here.
Yeah my parents were both born here. My parents speak pretty much no Chinese. I think my grandparents' grandparents came over here to United States so like back in like late 1800s.
Uh yes, yeah.
Um he/him.