Okay, yeah. I am - I have been working as an insurance broker for the last almost 20 years and before that, I've been working as an insurance adjuster for 10 years. I grew up in Japan and I finished my bachelor's degree there. Afterwards, I came here and I have a master's degree, and after that I’ve been working in the insurance industry.
We do handle commercial insurance. Sorry, so we don't handle like a personal order or personal homeowners, more like our clients are corporations. And then we are going to get the - we are the middleman and as a broker, we try to find the best-suited program for the corporation and negotiate with the various insurance companies and then present it to the client. So that's what we do, the risk management.
Very big. Yeah, worldwide broker company with yeah maybe several you know... I don't know how many people, 50,000 employees?
Well, that's a weird thing about COVID, that the last two years, you know, we kind of you know switched to the work at home. So, I’ve been working at home for you know, mainly for the last two years. Before that, we have team like, you know, less than ten people team. I interrupted with them often, and then by email and telephone with other colleagues in various locations, including Atlanta, Georgia.
Atlanta, Georgia.
Like a demographic wise or?
Again, it's changed during the COVID. It's kind of weird that you know, some people left during COVID, some people hired, and some people joined. So, right now we have like a few young, you know young colleagues, like twenties. And then others, we have you know fifties and sixties. Male female ratio about fifty-fifty.
I would say, eight. Very interesting job, interacting with people all the time, including clients and colleagues, insurance company. So there, excuse me. So many, it's a people, people job. But sometimes it's very stressful, we have to get to the very much details and sometimes we... hard to keep the due date, and you know sweat at nighttime. Did I miss that? That kind of feeling. So yes, very stressful but very rewarding work.
Mhmm, that's true, yes.
Um yeah maybe, because you know, yes, I guess I do that you know. In a way, I'm kind of customer service plus sometimes salesperson to my client and then I have to negotiate with my insurance company side. I have to be sometimes tough negotiator, so you may change your tone a little bit you know, case by case. Yeah, that happens.
Yes.
Yes, uh huh. One person I've been working with many years. So yes, I have to say she's my friend.
Um it depends on what colleague. Obviously that I'm with the same company for twenty years, so I know some people already so I can talk about private but, you know if I don't know a person so well or... Maybe I tend to talk, I guess it's natural, you know female employees, we talk more private, but not to the male employees.
I have to say it’s changed a lot. Again, those long years of employment very, very first time that they are not many Asian people in office. You know, I would say the majority Caucasian, and then there are African American people, and Asians maybe just a few. So, in a way, it was lonely and at that time. But things have changed nowadays. My corporation is really encouraging diversity and inclusion, so I think it’s a very good atmosphere.
Um you know, especially for the recent years, for the last several years, but the change is gradual because I see more and more ideal people in the office before COVID. Yeah, so maybe the last ten years I would say.
I mean it's hard to say. In my office, well it's hard to say. It's hard to say, 10%?
Yes, just a wild guess but...
Japanese, Korean, Chinese. Oh, many like Indian people and like Middle Eastern type people, there are too nowadays.
Outside.
Yes, that's a fact I think. Yeah, I mean again that... I mean the corporate culture is great, but it's still there, you know I mean. Yeah, you are female and then you are Asian, I'm sure that it’s, well... so that's the reason I'm afraid this video going to be confidential.
I think if you are Caucasian male, I think your promotion is faster. Yeah, that's why I still feel that way. Although I'm not complaining, I’m very happy that I was valued pretty well in my team so.
No, not this company the previous company that was, again, a long time ago. The previous company I was the only Asian one time... that time I was... One time, I still remember that I was heating up the microwave dinner and it's nothing that oriental or Asian, it's just a tuna casserole. Then one colleague said: “it smells so bad”, so that really kind of you know... You know: “Oh sorry about that,” but it was kind of weird feeling.
Well, well in you know those days... You've been here in Atlanta for all this time?
Well, those days, you know people doesn't even know much about sushi. So, you know, kind of normal reaction, I can accept, but you know I'm the only one person again Asian person there, so you know I didn't like it, but what can I do?
You know, at that time, maybe you're right. Again, this is a previous company. I tried to, you know again that I grew up in Japan, so I tried to learn the culture here too, so. My English was not great and yeah, I was um yeah kind of lonely feeling there, that's true.
Maybe left out. They’re not mean or anything, but I don't know the topic they're talking about so it's hard to join. So yeah, maybe kind of a little bit left out alone.
No, gradually I learned more and more about the culture and language, and you know, after a certain point of who cares about that? I just speak up my feeling, you know honestly, very honest and then sometimes very freely, so no I don't think so at all.
Yes, I think I am an emotional person.
In business setting, I tried to reserve it as much as possible, yes.
Well, yes. Sometimes I'm frustrated in that time I call, you know I call my colleagues who may be very close to me, and we talk to each other, stuff like that. But yeah, for the business setting I try not to show emotion in my emails on my phone calls.
Oh, it's not professional, just you know, period. To me, that person who is shouting, nobody want to listen. You know so just preserve it, and then try to be logical, you know:  “please do this by this date, any problems, please let me know” instead, you know “Hey why you didn't do it?” It doesn't solve any problems.
Again, this is a stereotype again, but then usually male colleagues doesn't show emotion much. There was a one female colleague show emotional a lot, which I do not like it.
Well it's up and down up and down, you know. Like a one day you come in and she's in a good mood, next day she is in bad mood. It's just tiring.
Oh yes, maybe code of conduct. You know we have to be professional to each other, no negative comments to each other. If you have any issues, you should talk to the HR.
When I'm stressed out.
Well if you say, if you have a due date and it's already past. You have a meeting next day, and you have not received the materials, I asked again and again, and that person was never responded to me, stuff like that. You know, get very frustrated, very stressed out and I guess I get very emotional.
Again, try not to show that, though. You know, try to be logical again. “Hey is there any problem? You cannot give it to me,” or you know, “can I help you” or something. Very, very um, I mean... Yeah, our company really emphasizing even colleague to colleague, when I talk to them, even the person who is maybe you know, working for me, we should be very, very polite, and that's my credo, too. Try to be nice to people. So, no, I'm not gonna, I try not to show emotion at office.
How much emotion? Also depend on how much emotion? If too much, it could be, it could be a complaint from the person.
Oh yeah, definitely. Yeah, everything goes well, great presentation. I get very happy.
I agree. Yes, I do think so.
You’re correct. Uh huh.
Nervous at work? Yes, you know again, due to I have lots and lots of due dates. You know, if it’s challenging, I get nervous.
I don't know. I need an answer for that. Try not to, I tried to shut down the computer at, you know, nighttime and then try not to think about that. Just like you know, movie ends and turns black so. But you know, it's easy to say but I'm still struggling for that.
Watch TV, fun thing, or try to you know talk to my friends, maybe helps.
Oh yeah. You know I call her too, yeah.
About the problem I'm facing, to the colleague you know. To a friend or my husband, I don't talk to the details, but my colleague, she understands the details. So: “Oh yeah I know... blah blah blah.” That helps.
You know what, she is more stable than me, I guess. She doesn’t come to me often.
Has anything changed?
I'm so get used to the work at home now so it's hard to think. At first in some moment, I missed the, you know, in person communication, face to face communication. But nowadays, no. I go to the office once in a while and I can see people so, no. What else changed? I don’t know, more dependency to the computer, technology.
Working from home.
Skip the commute.
Yes, I did. I was surprised to see that. Um I guess fortunately we don't... I don't hear that recently, but one time, you know, it was very, very sad to see the news, you know the photo. Yeah, that was bad. That was bad.
Fortunately, the people were surrounded by me are not like that, or at least doesn't show anything like that, so I was not afraid, but some of my friends told me that she's afraid to go out often like she used to, stuff like that happened. Again, I've been working here all the time that time, so I didn't have to go out, so I didn't have that kind of fear, but yeah.
Oh yes, same reason I mentioned.
Too much work, yeah. Maybe I may have make a mistake, I may have made a mistake in that kind of stuff.
It’s a physical problem too. Again, this work is rewarding and I like it, but stress is definitely the concern. When that happens, I have, you know physical issues, a headache, irregular heartbeat, acid problems, those things develop.
Yes, yeah right.
Working at home that's the reason?
Yeah it's always difficult, yeah. It is always difficult. And yes, you know watching TV and talking to friends, I tell you that it's not going to solve everything, anything. You know, that's gonna make me feel temporary good, maybe, but it’s still always there so until I tackle that issue and problem, it's not going to go away.
Yeah, I would say so.  I mean industry wise, you know our industry is kind of famous for the more and more older generation is prominent. So we, last five, six, seven years we try to recruit more young people into the industry. And that’s happening, so I think is even, you know balanced.
Age matters when?
I guess. Yeah, yes.
I’m sorry?
I'm a senior now. I guess the view I'm getting older, and I was when I joined, I was so young, energetic and blah blah blah. But nowadays. I'm afraid to drive, you know, like at nighttime, you know stuff like that happening. And in you know, I mean the among of team I'm getting the more older in age, the senior member of the team, So, things are a little bit different nowadays.
Once in a very while, yes.
I don't want to be specific about this, but I guess the most difficult client is the person who doesn't trust us. So, they you know they have to have proof for everything we say, so it's very difficult without relationship.
No, it's not. I mean fortunately really, our clients into very good, usually very good clients, but some clients just doesn't trust us. It's hard to say an example, I cannot think about any. Say we recommend something but they're not gonna listen, you know: “Oh that's okay, that's okay, we don't need it.” You know that's fine, but you need to know why you don't need it, but you know, “I don't want to talk, okay I understand, let's go to next topic.” I can tell that the person is interested, I mean interested and respects us and interested in our opinion and the person who thinks “I know everything already so just do your job” kind of attitude.
I just align with him, you know he is you know, whatever he likes. He is our client, you know, so make sure that he's happy. We have, I have to make sure he's happy, so just try to please him.
It is difficult, yes, but you know that's what I'm paid for, so I will try my best.
Well, I don't know if I have a skill or not, but I think definitely this job is interacting with many aspects of, you know, the people. Again, client, colleague, and also the insurance companies, so I guess the listening skill is most important. I'm not saying I have one, but I think you listen what they want, or what they want me to do. I think, you know, listening skill is most important.
Again, I'm not a superstar so I'm just you know, trying to do my job that’s it. I try to listen and I try to maybe write down and try to remember what this person is like, what this person wants, try to organize, that's what I do.
I guess the staff is... I wish to have one more staff. So sometimes I need to do some project, maybe one or two projects going on and then I have clients send me email, that’s a very easy email, but it takes like a few hours to take care of. So “oh no, I can’t handle three things at one time,” so that the time.
Yes, Teams.
Among the colleagues?
About the same.
I mean, both are kind of same and no change... serious professional casual. Hmm I guess more casual side I like with my colleagues.
I don't call that laid back, but it's not like a professional like you know. Very friendly. Friendly, yeah. Could be casual. Laid back, maybe a little bit different.
No, it’s very cooperative. Very cooperative.
No, I don't think so.
Okay, sure.
I am... Can I say I’m late 50s?
No, I mean, yes, yes.
Okay, great.