That sounds good. So uh my name is Participant 35. I was born and raised in Edinburgh, Washington, so about thirty minutes north of Seattle, Washington. I attended the University of Washington, Seattle campus for my undergraduate degrees, where I got a double major in both psychology and communication. From there I worked as an assistant pre-school teacher for a year full time, and then transitioned as a clinical research coordinator for the Seattle children's research institute, for approximately four years, and then decided to pursue a masters in the Health Administration at the University of Washington, Seattle campus, and so I um got my MHA, from 2020-2022, and worked part time as an administrative intern um last summer for a multi-care health system and then transition into two part-time positions before securing my role as a administrative fellow for the same health care system located in Tacoma, Washington. And then on the side, I do social media marketing for some restaurants throughout the greater Seattle area. It's just a hobby. But that kind of sums up, yeah, my life so far.
Allison S: Cool. Um. So you're you said a healthcare and a fellow
Administrative, Yea. So it's kind of like a residency. You know in med school how you do like a residency? It's kind of like Residency for a Health administrative folks
Allison S: Ah I see. And How long have you been doing that?
Um. I just started in mid um mid July. Yeah.
Allison S: Oh, okay, congratulations. That's awesome. How long will you be in that program for?
I’ll be in this program for, until next July.
Allison S: Gotcha. Um. Okay. Well, so it sounds like you have a couple of different experiences from before also, so you're free to answer um questions in relation to things you've done before or in in relation to your current role, either of those works. But first, can you tell me a little bit more about what it means to be a healthcare, administrative fellow, and what you do day to day?
Yeah, for sure. So as an administrative fellow, this program is primarily project-based, so seventy five percent of it is project I guess inspired in the sense where I'll be getting exposed and doing projects for on a system level. So just primarily we have a lot of different business units. And so my tasks enroll is to really work with a lot of senior executives on projects that impacts from downstream. And then from there, twenty five percent is more so mentorship, shadowing and just leadership development. Um: So yeah, in terms of day to day kind of varies. But it just encompasses a lot of like meetings and just learning opportunities as well as just like project work. So in terms of just like diving into different components like quality process improvement, strategic planning, some DEI work as well, so it kind of varies. And with my particular role it's kind of like tailored to my interest. And so my experience may be different from the other cofellows I have within my cohort.
Allison S: Gotcha, How do you feel about your job right now? Do you like it? And what do you dislike? And if you could rate it on a scale from one to ten, what would you give it?
Yeah. So in terms of like where I perceive this role impacting my life it’s definitely a very great opportunity. So, and that is kind of a ten. But in terms of how I'm feeling currently, it's probably like a seven out of ten in terms of kind of like what my thoughts are. I think it's there's a lot of like pain points, especially in an industry where there's a lot of financial losses happening within the healthcare industry in general, particularly with my health care system. And so I think that's kind of like impacted my experience a little bit. But overall, it's been highs and lows. I can further elaborate if you want me to. But that's kind of like a rough overview.
Allison S: Sure, if you want to elaborate more than that.
Yeah, for sure. I think you're kind of broken up. I can’t tell if that’s your end or my end… and let me know if you can hear me. (discussion about disconnected wifi)
Allison S: Yeah, I can hear you. I'll just go to the camera off and see if it is better.
all right. Sounds good. Um: yeah, I think it can you a little better. But um, yeah, You, I think you mentioned that can elaborate a little bit further.
Allison S: Yeah, Yeah.
Um: yeah. In terms of the challenges, I think it's more so just like learning to like fit into the culture, even though I've been with the system for about a year now, but it’s kind of just in a part time capacity, I think it's kind of just like learning more about my own working style and leadership, philosophy, as well as just like time management and project management. And so that's been kind of like struggles I've been dealing with recently, and then just trying to figure out where I want to see myself after the program. So that's been kind of like some pain points.
Allison S: Gotcha, can you tell me a little bit more about the culture and overall vibe or atmosphere of your workplace?
Yeah, I think it's, um, the vibe is good, in my opinion. I think it's more so like it’s… We have like some values, and like It's very trusting. I guess seeds of trust. So it's kind of very, I guess, open for growth. And you know, with my particular program, um it’s been nice just to be able to kind of like, just be a fly on the wall and kind of like do responsibilities without the accountability part because of my role as an administrative fellow. But so maybe i'm seeing it from a different lens versus if I was in a just a more full-time position. So this is kind of like a temporary. But the culture embrace like lifelong learning, and open for like transparency and honesty. So that's kind of like how the culture is currently.
Allison S: That seems good. Do you interact with other people a lot in your job? And if you do, are they clients or customers? Or are they more coworkers…?
More coworkers. In terms of clients, I mean, i'm not necessarily patient-facing in some sense, but in terms of colleagues, I go into the office every day, so I do interact like with senior leaders, my CEO and President of the system, as well as just panelists. And so a wide variety of roles for sure.
Allison S: How would you describe your relationship with the people that you work with? Are you? Would you say that you're friends with them, friendly. Do you not really socialize with them much out of work outside of work or beyond what you have to socialize with them about?
about that for for sure, I think with my current work dynamics, it’s been, at least with my, so I have a preceptor boss who is the CFO for the entire system. And so he kind of has created this culture, at least within our work team, that is more is like more family oriented, so we do hang out outside of work, and we have, we have some common interests. So in that sense it's like we're work friends, but we're also friends outside the workspace currently. So that's been kind of nice, and that seems to have been similar theme when I worked at Seattle’s children's research institute, even though we were like work friends. We also hung out outside of work, so they have some sort of camaraderie.
Allison S: that's good. Yeah, um. When you talk with your coworkers, do you feel like you can talk to them about anything or about personal matters? Or do you feel like you need to keep it pretty business professional?
Um, in some sense it's still like business professional. I know my preceptor, he's like thirty five, and so he has more… I'm twenty, eight. So we're in a similar age range, and because he's also Asian American, so it's kind of nice like we have similar shared cultural experiences. So in that sense, there's a connection there. But mostly it's like business, like eighty percent, twenty percent personal. Um I’m still pretty much having boundaries and like limits, since it is so like a professional work setting.
Allison S: Gotcha. So to what extent would you say you can be yourself at work, and to what extent do you feel like you have to act a certain way?
Um, let's see, I think for me personally, i'm like seventy percent my authentic self and thirty percent kind of like guarded a little bit. Maybe it's because of the circumstances in terms of that professionalism, and like drawing boundaries. But I would say that I feel comfortable in my own skin so kind of like. How I am with my friends is something similar to how I am in the workplace in terms of like my personality.
Allison S: Gotcha. And when you say that you sometimes are a little guarded about things, what do you mean by that?
Um, I don't like overly share. And so I you know I don't wear my emotions on my sleeves at all times. In that sense, you know. I think um because I’m still new to the work team like I think it takes time to move rapport and trust, and so I think in due time maybe I’ll feel more, you know, open to share more things more personally, but as of right now, it's kind of still like guarded. And I think that sense, I think it just takes time and patience and effort.
Allison S: Gotcha, do you ever vent or complain to your colleagues, or listen to them vent or complain to you?
I think most recently we have, just because we've had some similar struggles, um, navigating the system at this type of in with the current state of health care. So I think it's been nice to share those pain points. So when it comes to work related items, I think we share a little bit more of the struggles. Yeah, I would say it's a little more open and transparent.
Allison S: About work things, work related things?
Participant 35: Yeah, work-related struggle. That’s correct.
Allison S: Gotcha. Can you tell me a little more about the demographics of the people you work with like, maybe gender, race, age, that kind of thing?
Yeah. So as of right now, it's pretty male dominated in terms of people I’ve contracted with, and i'm like one of the only one, not only, but like one of the only Asian Americans, at least on my floor. But my boss is also Asian American, and we still have. Um. Okay, let's see, for like a breakdown, I would say is like the people that I've interacted so far it's like eighty five percent white. And then like fifteen percent Asian.
Allison S: Gotcha. So only Asian and White?
pretty much.
Allison S: I see. Um. And what about age?
Hmm. Yeah, I think with at least within my team. It's kind of what the team is only like four people. But we have a analyst that's like twenty two, and then second up is like me. So i'm like twenty eight, so I think, in terms of my team, the age demographics kind of like within early twenties to like mid thirties, or in terms of like the people I interact with overall, I would say it's like mid to late twenties to like forties and above.
Allison S: it's. Do you ever feel like your race, gender or age matter with how you're viewed at work?
I think it seems to be a little more male-dominated. So I think in that sense that's because i'm male, so  I think that's maybe subconsciously more impactful, but in terms of just kind of like ethnicity, right wise. It seems to be primarily Caucasian and Asian. So yeah,
Allison S: So you feel like you fit in?
I think I definitely fit in because there is some sort of like org structure where I've seen is like mainly just Caucasians and Asian. So yeah.
Allison S: Gotcha um. Have you ever experienced any sort of stereotyping, or like racial comments, or anything like that at work?
At least not in this particular, um, not within my position. But I feel like I've faced some sort of like incident biases some like stereotypes back in my old workplace as Seattle Children's Research Institute. Um. But yeah.
Allison S: Can you tell me a little more about that?
I think just like subtle comments and implicit biases that comes about when working with those work-style dynamics. But I guess and with that I was like a research assistant at Seattle Children's for a little bit, and it was a primary like white-dominated team, even in you know, I might say that everyone's a little more like up to date, and like more in tune with like social constructs. So I don't want to say the word “woke,” but I guess they're “woke.” But I think just like passive comments here and there. I can't really pinpoint particularly, but I know that was emphasized.
Allison S: Gotcha. So things happened, but nothing stands out right now in terms of specifics.
Yeah, there's never like ah any escalation point where it was like. Oh, wow! That was blatantly racist. But obviously, then, you know, there's still some lots of biases that comes about, and like some stereotypes. But nothing that you think there were was like wow, that was obviously racist.
Allison S: Do you remember any particular like biases that people, you know seemed to have?
Um. I think if I had to like pinpoint some, it would just kind of being like a whole um passiveness where, like you know where, at least in my opinion, like Asian Americans are seen as like kind of just passive, like just get the work done, being told what to do. So I think I've seen that a couple of times. Um and then, just like assuming we know data analytics, I guess. Like the mathematic portion of it, you know. So yeah, yeah.
Allison S: Gotcha. Um. So oh, yeah
And I guess I guess in my workplace we have like um. It was me and my colleague, who was like Filipino American, and I think my boss would like get our names wrong sometimes. I can't tell if that’s because she’s forgetful or if it’s because like she thinks we're the same people. But there's that, so I feel like that’s uh, yea.
Allison S: I see. I see. Yeah, um. So you mentioned earlier that you're not the kind of person who wears your emotions on your sleeve. Is that because you don't feel like you are very emotional in general? Or would you consider yourself an emotional person who is just kind of private about what you feel?
So let's see, let me rephrase that. So I do wear my emotions on my sleeve in a sense where, like I can't really hold a poker face. If I find something annoying, I will be annoyed, and you can probably visually tell. And most times I think, when to me why I meant by that statement. It was more so like, if i'm feeling very frustrated, I will not like, maybe I won’t show it  blatantly during a meeting, but I definitely will vent um or something along those lines, to people. So I feel like I'm very aware of my emotions. I've done some assessments where I've like told that my EQ is pretty high, or like my empathy, is there. So maybe it's like a confirmation bias, but I do think I'm more in tune with my emotions. I think I have different venting points, if that makes sense sure.
Allison S: Sure, yea. Um, at work, would you say that you tend to share openly with what you're feeling, or do you keep it more private because it's a work setting?
I think I have. So I have people that I turn to within the organization that when I have struggles I share it with because of my year working here as a part time position, and as an intern last year, so I think I don't show it to some people but I definitely show it to others.
Allison S: What about in your previous roles?
Um. Not too much. Actually, I think that was a little bit harder, because I think I was still learning my own capabilities and my strengths and weaknesses, so I think I wasn't in tune with my emotions when I was there. Or if so, like, I would vent outside of the workplace, not really to my colleagues.
Allison S: Gotcha. Can you think of any times when you felt particularly emotional or a strong emotion at work?
Hmm. Yeah. I think it was a couple weeks ago. I was tasked with like managing a project that would have supposedly taken like half of my time, and I was like kind of anxious about that, because I wanted to like do other projects. So I thought I was like doing it, so I felt very stressed and very like, it was anxiety-inducing. Um so that was a couple of weeks ago.
Allison S: Gotcha any other times that you can think of?
Um, yeah, I think just like when I transitioned to this role and was assigned a task, um from my preceptor, my boss, and it was something that that was outside my skill set. It was kind of like overwhelming for me to do, since I didn't really know how to do it. And so that was also anxiety-inducing kind of like that impostor syndrome. And so those are particular strong instances that I felt in the past couple of weeks. I can name more, but those are probably the most prominent.
Allison S: Okay, I mean you're you're welcome to share about other times, too, if you if you can think of some.
I think those two are just come to mind since like maybe recency bias, just cause, it just happened like a month ago. So within the month. So maybe those two are more of the points I’ll elaborate on.
Allison S: Sure. And when that happened, did you share with other people how you are feeling or not really?
Um: Yeah, yeah. I definitely did. I definitely vented and shared my frustrations and emotions to my mentor. And then my partner as well.
Allison S: I was just going to ask you what your mentor's response was.
It was more so of just like making sure I was, you know, advocating for myself, being transparent about my emotions and feelings, and being upfront with those that I need to have, you know, conversations with, and then taking a step back, making sure that I was like trusting the process a little bit, and like rethinking my expectations for the fellowship as well. Because this is a more so a learning opportunity, it’s not more so like I'm being tasked with something that I need to know how to do. It’s more sort of like being tasked something, and then learning to do it out on the go. Yeah, it's like a mindset. Reframing my mindset.
Allison S: Sure, What about in your former roles like? Did you ever feel a particularly strong emotion while you were at those jobs?
Maybe emotions more so like excitement to do the job and kind of like learning new opportunities. But I think it was more so stagnant. It wasn't really high stress points, so I would say, is more so stagnant and kind of just like going through the motions until I got, ended up enrolling to my master’s program.
Allison S: What about when you were a preschool assistant? What was that like?
Oh, yeah, um. So during my undergrad. I work part time as an assistant preschool teacher, for, like a monastery school or um, we're just more so tailored based to individual children. So it's kind of like there was some structure, but it's definitely more like individualistic in terms of the teaching style. Um, yeah, I mean I was in a part-time facility, or like capacity. It was like not too stressful. But definitely when I worked full time for a year, it was like yeah, it was. It was definitely like stressful, and then kind of just like dealing with like different um children and their challenges as well. So yeah, I would say stressful was a good word to put it.
Allison S: What did you do to cope with your stress and in your current role, too? What do you do to do? You have any strategies that you use?
Yeah. So in terms of strategies currently. Um. Hmm… honestly. I’m just one of those people were kind of like. I just deal with it on the go. But like in terms of like legitimate strategies, i'm still trying to learn that myself. Um time management has been a big thing for me. So I think just one of the biggest things that's helped me is like kind of block out time on my calendar to do work-related items. I have poor… um I have poor work-life balance because I usually just work throughout the day, and then sometimes at night. So I've been trying to block time out of my calendar to not do work outside of work. Blocking time on the schedule. Journaling a little bit has been helpful in terms of like processing what I've been doing. And then, just like leisurely activities like climbing. I boulder a little bit and just gym activities.
Allison S: Right on. Cool. Um. Switching gears a little bit. What has been different about your job because of the pandemic?
Oh, I think the biggest difference, at least within the healthcare industry, the health admin industry, is like the shift from like in-person work to remote work. I think before then, before the pandemic, it was expected, and I was expected to like, come into work every day in person with whatever company I was gonna work for. I think for health administrators, it's a little more different now. I think the opportunity to work remotely has been more encouraged, or sometimes more convenient. So I think that's been the biggest change.
Allison S: Kind of related, but not really. In the last couple of years, there's also been an increase in news reports about violence against Asian Americans. Is that something that you've been aware of? And has it affected you at all?
Yeah, it definitely has. I think it hits home when it comes to like a lot of the anti-Asian hate that has been occurring throughout the country like particularly New York and other states. Um, yeah, I'm very socially aware in terms of like the justice movements, especially during the peak of the pandemic, and then carrying that on. I have like a food Instagram. Yeah, I’m a foodie. But then I like remember at the time, ours, you know, there was a time where we would need to support our local businesses, particularly BIPOC businesses like Asian Americans. So I did a bunch of that work, doing a lot of promotion, advertising, and then um in that hospitality industry. And then I was pretty much aware of it when a lot of things happened where there was like a lot of vandalism of like Asian owned businesses and stuff like that. So yeah, I think that's definitely impacted me outside of the work setting a little bit. I hope that answers your question.
Allison S: You said you do social media stuff outside of work. Oh, can you hear me? (convo about technical difficulties). Is there anything else about your workplace or your jobs that we haven't discussed that you want to talk about?
In terms of like Asian, like in terms of what?
Allison S: In terms of anything.
Um, yea I think like it's just transition from different positions. I'm doing like I think, working as a full-time employee in like a corporate space for a couple of years before transitioning back to school, and then during the pandemic, and then transitioning from a full-time student to a full-time employee again has been kind of like interesting in terms of those dynamics, because I've definitely had lots of change in the past two years. But yeah, I think there's a lot of transitional periods, but that's the only thing I would add.
Allison S: Can you tell me more about what you mean by “it's been interesting”?
Um, I think it's just been um career change for me. So I think emotionally has been a lot to process um in terms of just like getting out of the mindset of a student, and more so back as a full-time employee, for a even though i'm happy and passionate about what i'm doing. I think it's still like a mindset shift for me. And then just going into school during the pandemic has definitely changed a lot of the industries, and just like how we view like remote work, and then how we um seeing some of the dynamics of how that changed in terms of politics, and like other things as well. So I think it was an interesting time to go back to school.
Allison S: Gotcha gotcha. Well, that's about it for my questions. We went through them pretty fast. I don't know if you had anything else that you wanted to talk about.
Um. I think that was it. But I guess on, if there is anything you think I should elaborate on, or do you think you have enough information to go over to kind of like, at least for this particular interview.
Allison S: Yeah, I think I have some good things to go off of. Let's see. I did have a couple of like follow up questions for you, just about like demographic type questions. Can you remind me again where you're located?
Yeah, I'm located in Seattle, Washington.
Allison S: Right? Okay, you're in Seattle, and you were born there as well?
I was born thirty minutes north of Seattle, but yea basically in the same area.
Allison S: Gotcha, Gotcha, and your parents. Were they born in the United States? Or were they born abroad?
They were born abroad.
Allison S: You mentioned that you're a Filipino. Is that right?
Oh, no, I’m Vietnamese. Vietnamese American.
Allison S: Oh, I thought you were—
I mentioned my Philippines colleague, and then talked about how my boss kind of like mixed us sometimes as part of like the standard type and like yeah.
Allison S: I see I see. So um, were your parents born in Vietnam then?
Yeah, my parents were born in Vietnam. They came to America after the Vietnam War.
Allison S: Gotcha. Um, And you said, you're twenty eight. Is that correct?
Yeah. Correct.
Allison S: Can you tell me your gender pronouns?
he him his
Allison S: Okay. Um, yeah, I think that’s it for my questions Um, Yeah, Sorry. I know we went through this really fast. Sorry about the Internet problem. I don't know. I guess I need to go look at that because it's sort of disruptive, but let me stop this recording real quick.