Sure thing. My name is Participant 27. I am originally from - grew up mostly around the northeast of the US my family immigrated from Asia and China to the US. And I was born in the US. I live in Atlanta. I work at a company called the Metro Atlanta Chamber and I am the senior manager for life science and digital health on our ecosystem expansion team, where I try to recruit businesses to come to metro Atlanta and help businesses that are already here try to grow.
Allison S: That sounds really cool. Can you tell me a little bit more about your specific role and what your day-to-day looks like?
Yeah, so my specific role is a little bit of sales and a lot of networking slash knowledge collecting. So, in my role, I see it as two ways, I'm responsible for knowing the different stakeholders and players and information about assets that are in the metro area as it relates to my industries that I cover. So, that ranges from knowing people at some of the academic institutions like schools, who are related to developing students in life sciences and digital health that ranges anything from biology, chemistry, at the college level to masters, PhD level, to computer science on the digital health end. But also, companies and what projects they are doing, what type of companies they are and what presence they have in metro Atlanta, as well as just different players. And then the other part of it is to attract companies here, so it means talking to people who might not be in the area and saying: “have you considered coming to the Southeast or to Atlanta? Here's why Atlanta is great for XYZ.” I'm a part of a larger team that focuses on doing the same thing across different industries that include film and video, technology, supply chain, manufacturing, so some major... in general economic visions or verticals, as well as just different business drivers in there yeah.
Allison S: Gotcha, so this is a client-facing role and you're interacting with people quite a lot, right?
Yeah, it's very client facing. In fact, I mean, we work with internal teams a lot, but even the teams that you know... we have teams internally that we work with, but a lot of even our team projects are with external people that I think you get closer to them as you work with them, but they're not internal company people. So, for example, we work very closely with the Georgia Department of Economic Development, which is a state government entity. As well as Georgia Power, which is a utility company, and Georgia Tech. So, public and private companies, we work very closely with them on teams, but they're not internal to our company. And it is very client facing, so a lot of it is kind of white glove service and be on your best behavior for the most part. Once you get more familiar with people, you know you can let loose a little bit, but it's still trying to be very professional.
Allison S: Yeah. So, to what extent would you say you can be yourself at work, and to what extent do you definitely have to act a certain way?
So, the other thing to note is that I'm relatively new in my role. I started in April, so I came from Emory Healthcare, which is affiliated with Emory University. I was doing innovation work, and previous to that, operations and strategy. So that was a lot more internal facing work, even though my innovation role was actually still external facing, which is how I kind of got hooked up with this role. I guess, to answer your question. What percentage am I myself versus what I think I need to be? It's low. I would say at work...  I'll stratify it so, if I’m just with coworkers, maybe it's like 45:55. So 55% being not myself, or like a certain persona I feel like I should put on, and 45% is like most of my own personality and my own behaviors. I think it also varies if I'm talking to a kind of like peers in age versus like seniors who are different in age. But the day-to-day of my job is not very often just sitting in the office, it's kind of going out there. And especially in the phase of where I am now - meeting new people and kind of putting on a good first impression, it's actually closer to probably maybe 75:25 or 80:20, actually.
Allison S: So, what’s that persona like? The one that you put on when you're at work?
I think it's a persona where... and I mean art imitates life, but I think a lot of the persona is kind of very professional, very caged or on top of things. And I don't think it's not that I’m not those things, but I think it's sometimes like I don't want to be there all the time or I’m tired, but you got to be on. I think the persona that people probably perceive, and I don't think it's inaccurate of my actual is like you know, young, energetic up-and-comer, which I think is a good thing for a lot of the folks because it's... and I also am very aware that I'm a younger minority, whereas historically a lot of folks in the industry and especially in the business side of my industry is kind of, older, white, and like not that diverse. So, the perception, and maybe the reason why they hired me, in some ways is like that kind of up-and-comer-type situation, which I think I am, right? Just being myself, but I think that I lean into some of that a little bit also having been... a lot of folks in our business are like UGA, Georgia Tech grads, I'm from Boston, from Philadelphia, so it's like someone from the Northeast speaking on why Atlanta is good, but comparing it to my experiences in Northeast, right? So, it's a little bit of... It’s not that I'm not real about the good things about the Northeast, but it's also like hemming up what's good about our region, right? Because that's part of my job. I'll give you an example, just like in sales like if you're selling a product that's similar to like, say Microsoft. Everyone knows Microsoft is a very good product, but your job is to sell your product, right? So, I think there's a pros and cons to everything in that realm, like there's pros and cons to Atlanta, but sometimes I have to lean more into pros because that's my job.
Allison S: Sure, yeah. Well, first of all, how do you feel about your job, like if you had to rate it on a scale from one to ten, what would you give it?
In general, there's different facets, but I would say in general I’d actually give it an eight out of ten. The biggest positive is that it's really unique. It's not very often that someone can say that they work for a chamber of commerce in a background of mine, which is more healthcare. That's super unique, and I think it'll open up a lot of doors for me in terms of knowing people and knowing how to engage in that way versus if I were to have stayed in the hospital and kind of become like a project manager in the hospital and like doing that... It would be a very small focus of health care, which I think is still important, but now I’m opening up my network and like my experiences, and I think that will be pretty invaluable later down the line.  And then like I get to do cool stuff, like I get free stuff all the time, free food. My job is in a way just getting food with people and coffee with people and talking to them. And I think that's also because I’m new in my job so like maybe down the line I have to do, and I'm already seeing it, like more grunt work, which is still important. I’m used to that from my other roles, but it's not a bad deal to be able to get food and have a card to pay for it that's, you know, from your company. The downsides are... My schedule is very varied, but it's good and bad because it's new stuff every day, very exciting, very cool. But it gets pretty exhausting because there's no set routine and any given day, I might work pretty late because there's like networking events that happen after work. And I don't have to attend all of them, I’m not required or anything, but I feel that at this stage of my career slash in my role, again leaning into the up-and-comer persona, I'm just getting to these events. The events end up being fine but I’m pretty exhausted. But then, I hear good feedback like: “Oh, you know this energetic young guy. Good job, you guys hired a good one.” That's good for me because ultimately it helps me get hopefully higher earning potential down the line and get this higher profile. But I try to be very cognizant that this is just a job. I think it's important - when I work, I do things because I believe that it's going to help society or people, and I believe that you know, bringing jobs - the other part, is like the mission right? - like bringing jobs, hopefully, will help people you know upward trend in their lives, provide for their families and, overall, rise. The con again there is like maybe I’m contributing to gentrification and inequalities of economic things, right? By bringing in big companies that only favor upper educated folks. I studied public health, so I'm very aware of all these things, and so yeah. That's a con. The con schedule sometimes, but it's also a pro. Another con is I have to go in every day, which is not great. Well not every day, we have some hybrid days. But again, it's hard to say because some people like that. I think I like that to a degree. I do like the hybrid model because for the past year I was working fully remote that got kind of boring and not feeling impactful even though, I was working at the hospital. So, I think that there's pros and cons in general. But like, if I were to step back and think about overall, I think it's a pretty cool gig. But I also know that I'm pretty resilient in terms of like lack of sleep threshold and lack of like I can just mow through energy as I need to, I guess.
Allison S: For now. As long as you (…)
For now, yeah. You know I don't have kids, like I don't have too many responsibilities or people that I’m responsible for outside of work, so I can balance what I need to do. But I am very involved with things outside of work as well, so that's something I'm trying to figure out but I've always been a person to try to pile on things. So, it's maybe a healthy unhealthy trait.
Allison S: Interesting. So, can you tell me a little more about the culture of the company and sort of the atmosphere, vibe of the workplace?
Yeah, it's a mix of like traditional office but like hip? But I think the hip is in pockets, where like our brand communications team is hip and diverse, coming from like entertainment background and marketing. I mean marketing in general is like that. Our economic development, we have like very traditional people who do it, who are kind of wine and dine type people. But they try to be hip, not that they're not hip, but you know what I mean. I don't know how to say it like... They know that's like the market they are in. But everyone is pretty supportive in general. I think what's difficult for me is that there's a lot of fast-moving things and for me, I like to do things thoroughly. So, when something comes, I feel that I need to do it to the best of my ability, not just get it done, which makes it hard when a lot of things pile up because people are just kind of like: “Hey can we do this, can you do this?” and I'm like: “yeah, yeah, yeah.” And then because there's no one that focuses in my kind of healthcare, life science vertical - but that's the same for anyone, like if someone has a tech question, they go to someone else, right? It's also an air traffic control mindset of saying: “You came to me with this request, actually you should go to this person because they would know better.” But the culture overall is pretty cool people, like I actually do enjoy - like very unique personalities. It is a little bit cliquey. I think that if you aren't like... It's a balance still that I’m trying to figure out because maybe I’m just new, but just like any company, even though we're no more than 60 people, I think departments tend to hang out with the same people they know, or if they were interns together they hang out. I've always tried to generally not separate work from home life. I have friends that I've made elsewhere outside of that, so I feel that I don't need to necessarily be the closest with my coworkers. But some people see it differently or have approached it differently, so that's that. The other thing is I don't play golf and a lot of people play golf. So, that's the thing too. I'm not opposed to learning golf but I just have a lot of other things on my plate.
Allison S: Yeah. Can you tell me a little more, you hinted at this, but can you tell me more about the demographics of the people you work with and like the composition of your overall workplace?
Sure, so the marketing team I told you about, the branding team. I think maybe minus... No, I think they're all like Black or Latino. There was one white guy who I really liked, but he left this last week. My team is about, I don't know, 11 people? There's one black girl, and there's me, and everyone else's white and they're all... I think from Georgia. Or have been in Georgia for a long time or have UGA or whatever connections. In fact, most of our company went to UGA so that's a little bit isolating as someone who didn't grow up with SCC football, or like college football in general. The other side of the hallway, the other side of the building or office is like policy which is very... it’s a little bit diverse but generally you know pretty white. That is something that the company is very aware of, and I think that sometimes I’m a little bit perturbed by the way... and I get it, but you know, like I'm aware of like who I am and my background, but I don't want it to necessarily be used as like tokenism.  And sometimes like even in conversation they'll be like: “oh yeah so, and so, and so. also like they happen to be black.” And I'm like, okay, I get what you're getting at, but it seems a little bit tokenistic to me, but I understand. And I say that because I - one of the things I do is not in work, but real quick outside of work is I run - we're trying to become official nonprofit but it's a group called the Association of Asian Healthcare Leaders and it's because I didn’t see many Asians in healthcare business and so we've founded it and we try to promote events that are focused around interviewing and having panelists who are Asian Americans in leadership positions at healthcare organizations. So, I'm very aware of the dynamics there, and I'm very proud of my background and culture, but I’m also cognizant of maybe times that I feel tokenized. And maybe that's just, you know, feeling versus reality, but also people are aware that they're very white as well, so it's not that they're ignorant either.
Allison S: Sure. Can you think of examples of when you felt tokenized?
Yeah, I'll give an example. On my first week, I was pulled into a meeting because there weren’t many people around then, because it was just a weird week but it was with a group from Asia that was visiting, and they said: “Oh, Participant 27, can come and help translate.” And I said: “that's not my job” very nicely. I was like: “I don't think I can do that. I wouldn't be able to do that well. I wasn't hired for that.” But again, first week of work. Number two: this group of people, even if they did speak the language I speak, I'm not good at my language. By the way, they're from New York, so they should be able to speak English. So, yeah. So, that was like ... Well, okay, so you can see I try to give benefit of the doubt, but you can see it in a couple ways like maybe it's because I’m new, they just want to give me all the experiences. That's great. I appreciate that, right? Or like this guy is Asian he will thus translate the Asian language of the people that are coming, even though those people are in America, right? Because I would think that if they are professional enough, that group would be like: “Hey, we need a translator. We’ll bring a translator because we don't have a translator in house.” So that was one example. Another example, this is a very classic thing you hear is, you know, someone asked me where was I born and I said Missouri. So they asked a very pointed question of like where was I born and I said “Missouri, USA.” And then they said: “oh, you know what I mean,” and just stared at me. And again, you know I'm very aware of who pays my salary and new and all that, but I looked at them for a second, just visibly confused and I got what they're saying, and I said: “Well, I was born in Missouri in the US, my family immigrated from China.” And they're like: “Okay.” And because I know the person, I think that generally they don't mean it maliciously but it's just a lot of ignorance there. So those are some examples. My old workplace I didn't get that as much, I mean I got it from maybe like patients, people said like China virus, all that stuff, or the Wuhan virus. It's very upsetting actually because I was really working very hard to help people and they're just saying those things that I know have affected a lot of us poorly and disproportionally and actually physically, lifeblood harmfully. So yeah, that happened, but now with coworkers, and one of the questions I actually use now - that my old my old boss would use - is like what is your ethnic background? I actually appreciate that question more because it's very pointed. It's not asking like: “where are you from?” and like what are the implications behind that. It also helped that he’s from an ethnic minority background too, in the U.S. So, it was helpful that way, and I do find that in workplaces minorities tend to - even if they're not the same like race or anything - tend to kind of congregate sometimes.
Allison S: Sure, yeah. Do you have anyone like that at your current job that you feel like solidarity with?
Oh, there was a Korean American woman, but she left like two weeks into my job or like a month in, and so that was sad. But otherwise, I would say some of the interns are minorities, which is good but I'm sad because I know that they're going to leave. But there are some that kind of recognize all this and we end up sitting together. They’re mostly Black. But I think that maybe, I don't know if you ever have experienced this, but being an Asian American... It's interesting because you can kind of go between being the majority like white mainstream educated - is some people's perceptions - and also you're a minority so you're in between different worlds. But you're also like not necessarily lumped in as minorities when people think about DEI, right?
Allison S: Yeah, that's a good point. One of the things I'm interested in in this study is how people feel and express their emotions in the workplace. So, I would like to know, do you consider yourself an emotional person and are you the type of person who is expressive about what you feel or do you tend to be more private and reserved?
I would consider myself an emotional person. In terms of how it's expressed, I'm pretty selective... like I don't have a problem, controlling the expression of my emotions unless it's like really egregious or bad or overwhelming, which generally doesn't happen. I think that I can definitely put – again, I have to be pretty professional - and so I can put on a pretty good face. If I'm comfortable with someone like later, I’ll say like: “Dang, that was a xyz experience.” Again, it depends. With my peers, I’m a little bit more comfortable saying like: “hey don't do that” or like “that's not good.” I do struggle with superiors or like people I report to, even though I would say the culture in the office is pretty... even though it's like vertical, they’re everyone's family or whatever. But even in personal life, I think that I generally won't express any negative emotions until I’ve come home and thought it through thoroughly and have like rational or kind of like facts to why I’m feeling the way I am and have proposed solutions when I express it. But usually in stuff like this, where I'm at home with friends that I feel comfortable with, long form I can just express most...  the biggest emotion is usually like frustration, or like anger, if anything. Sadness happens, but it's more... I just take my own time with that. Happiness and excitement, I think that comes out pretty normally. But yeah, so I would say TLDR (too long didn't read) is I would consider myself emotional, I'm pretty good at keeping it in. I don't think that I hard time expressing emotions if I feel that I want to express my emotions to someone. It’s a question of if I feel that that person is ready to receive said emotional expression, particularly the negative or deeper ones.
Allison S: Do you feel compelled to constrain your expression or is that just like a personality thing, you think?
I think it's a bit of personality and I do intentionally constrain it. Growing up, I was always told to just man up when I had emotions and people would tell me I’m too sensitive. So, I don't want to rock the boat too much. So, I just kind of bottle things in and I found out later that that's very unhealthy and so I’ve grown a lot from that time. So, I found that out in my college years where I kind of came through a crisis time. So, I've gotten a lot better, I think, at kind of being real with myself and reflecting on like why am I feeling this way, how I'm feeling, and what I should do about it and who I should talk to you about it. So, I think that has been an ingrained as a part of my personality. But I also think I intentionally try to constrain it because I try not to upset other people, but some people are a little bit more volatile and so, if you are upset with them, they kind of freak out. So, if I know that you're not going to freak out I’ll just whatever, but if I don't know what's going to happen if I’m expressing myself in a negative way, I'll just try to keep it in. Usually, the doors open if they express frustration then I’ll kind of get to their level but, again, depending on what we're expressing frustration about, I’ll try to restrain.
Allison S: Sure. Can you think of any examples or any times when you felt a particularly strong emotion at work?
Yeah. In my old workplace like I've mentioned, long hours: like get to the clinic at 6am, close clinic at 9 or 10. Very little sleep, a lot of moving around. And then, I told the story of someone saying China virus, and I don't think they said it to me. I think they probably just watch a lot of news channels that say that, and that's all they know, I guess. They weren't even talking to me, like they were talking to my two white colleagues at the time, but I was in earshot, and so I felt very angry. So, I just walked away from the situation and cooled off like in a separate area that wasn't open to patients or the public. And then just cooled off, and I just kind of stood there really. I didn’t punch anything or anything. And then I walked back.
Allison S: Did you express anything to your coworkers at the time?
No, I think I just texted like: “I'm going to step out for a second.” I think they got it because I don't usually say stuff like that. And then I came back, and they were just kind of wide-eyed and they're like: “Are you okay?” and I was like “yeah.” So I appreciated that they asked if I was okay, and like recognized... They're like: “that was so uncalled for,” and I was like: “maybe he's ignorant, but I just had to remove myself from the situation.” So, I appreciated that they checked in. So that was one example. I generally don't - the most common thing with work is frustration. Because in healthcare, for example, I would work with companies who want all these xyz but they don't understand how hospital works and I'm like: “it doesn't work that way.” But they just want it, and I’m like: “well, I want to please you and I want to get it done, but it just doesn't work that way so you're just gonna have to figure it out.” But I usually, again, express that to my own internal colleagues. I try to be pretty mindful of the words I say to external people.
Allison S: Sure. What about in your current job? Has there been any times when you felt like particularly emotional?
No, I think that... Again, it's more frustration, and it's frustration when I get a lot of requests that there seems to be no rhyme or reason, or they don't recognize the context of like I’m still getting up to speed, I don't know everything. That's frustrating, but I understand why they do it because it's like I am the de facto person for this thing so they're going to - it's like everyone wants to pass off the work that's not relevant to them, but then when it gets to me I’m like, okay, I admit that it is my field, but I also admit that it's not something I know yet because I’m new at my job. A year from now hopefully it gets better and I'll know the answer, but you can’t expect me to give this back to you in X minutes. I've been slowly like... Someone said, like: “hey blah blah blah, and we did last time for like accommodate them, they're like: “Oh, I actually don't need to be on this meeting.” And I was like: Well, please like next time, if you don't even need to be in the meeting just let me know, so that I can just plan without you because coordinating multiple schedules gets hard. But if it's just me I can handle that.” It's like stuff like that, so I've been getting a little bit on setting boundaries, but it's pretty nerve-wracking sending email.
Allison S: Yeah.
Not that nerve-wracking, I mean I just typed it out, but I was like I'm being a little bit pointed here. And they were like -
Allison S: Oh, sorry go on.
Oh, and then they just responded like: “Okay, got it. Thanks.” so I guess it wasn't like -  again, to me it was a big deal with them, they're like: “Oh okay, sorry.” You know. So that's why maybe generally I don't think people are malicious. so.
Allison S: Sure, yeah. Changing gears a little bit, in the last couple of years, as you probably know, there's been an increase in news reports of Anti-Asian violence and is that something that's affected you at all? And if so, how?
I think that if I'm honest, it hasn't affected me as emotionally as I think it would. I think it's because I'm always consuming media news. It's something I'm definitely aware of because it pertains to someone I am, but because I don't know the people, it feels a little bit far away. I end up getting caught and more of the political discourse, which can be mostly unhealthy, I guess, admittedly. And I lose the human aspect, I think that what brings me back is if I see pictures and stuff, that's like pretty sobering. But I guess it doesn't affect me too much emotionally. I do think sometimes if I see someone in-person that - for example, if I saw a homeless person that looked like me or like my mom, that's a little bit more like pressing? Or like kind of touching? But with the news stories, it's mostly like a little bit of anger and frustration and then thinking about what can we do to solve this rather than sadness or other feelings.
Allison S: Yeah. Is there anything else about your workplace that we haven't talked about that you would want to talk about or discuss?
About the workplace?
Allison S: About your job or about anything really.
Oh, okay. So, one thing about my workplace is, going back to culture, there's just like always stuff going on, so you can't really turn off. It's hard to say like... And I mean they do respect it, like it's hard to be like: “Alright, I'm on vacation.” Like you can't clock in at nine, clock out at five. Like sometimes there's emergency stuff that comes up. But you know I read, this is weird, but I read a Twitter thread recently, like unless you're like a doctor or a nurse or like a firefighter or something, like your job can wait. And I actually do resonate with that, so. And the other part of me says that I think I have enough leverage to be like: “they're not going to fire me, like that would be a bad look for them.” So, I have some security there, right. And the other part that's comforting for me now is like even if I do lose this job like, yeah that's bad, and maybe that's bad in the long term, of like: “oh, why do you only have a job for X months at this company?” But you know, I'm confident enough in myself and my skills and my abilities to be able to find a new job, whether that's here or elsewhere. The other thing I would say that's hard about my job is that it is very location centric. So, I lost the ability to work remotely and that was helpful because I would just travel and work remotely. But the other part, is that it locks me in to a geographical area, which means that I have to figure out all the things that go around that. All the extracurriculars or just life stuff that comes with being there versus like being a little bit more free to think about moving somewhere, right?
Allison S: Sure.
And then the last thing I'll say is this. I mean, again, I'm not from the South. It's a very southern culture at times, I've definitely adapted to know what to talk about like football, and yeah whatever it is, I can definitely make a caricature of what people talk about after the weekends that are very different. Like on a weekend I go to karaoke then get Korean barbecue, that's very different than a coworker that plays golf and hangs out with his nephews and nieces right? And the other dynamic is that in my cohort of coworkers, people my level or like my team are 35 and up, and I'm not that age yet. I'm still on the younger side, but then people who are lower than me are my age, so I am in a weird like company dynamic, like positionally. And they all have like kids and like whatever, but then my peers like, they see me as a different level, but then they’re also my peers in age. It's kind of strange, that's something I have not navigated. But last thing I'll say is this: I think my job... I gave it like eight out of ten. It's very unique and it's very “build your own adventure” but I've also never had a job that wasn't build your own adventure, which is a blessing to me, I think. It's very cool to be able to do that and I recognize a privilege behind that. So part of me is like: “well I would make good money being a data analyst, I might do that.” But then I'm also like, my job is super interesting so I recognize that. I've always been of the motto of like: “wherever you are whatever you're doing, like do it, or like be all there.” So, I balance like trying to make the most of it with also staying sane because I have all these other outside of work responsibilities. So, yeah.
Allison S: Yeah. Going back to the thing you said about culture and being in the south and acclimating to the things people talk about, do you ever feel like your race has mattered and how you are viewed are treated in that respect?
Maybe, um yes. I guess the answer is yes. You know there's a term I learned when I moved here called “good ol boy,” I would definitely not be a “good ol boy” for many different reasons. I think that I do sometimes use my knowledge and also who I am as a, not a crutch, but like a conversation point. I'll say like: “Oh, I live near Buford highway, there's some great food here.” They'd be like: “Oh I love PF Changs,” and I’m like okay. PF Chang’s is a mainstream U.S. restaurant if you're not aware. Or they're like: “I really want to try this place called hop six,” which among my Asian friends, they're like oh that's very white. But among them, they're like: “Oh, this is so exotic” right? But you know people being a lot more aware of just the DEI these days is really cool and even in May, I helped lead our AAPI heritage month event where I was able to bring different snacks actually, from like H-mart. Like Korean and Asian snacks that were like lychee jelly and like turtle chips, which are just different kind of Asian snacks and people were like: “oh what's this? I've never heard of the lychee.” So, again, if I were a more judging person, which I guess I am in some ways, but I would be like: “how do you not know what lychee is?” But I'm like, well, this is a learning opportunity.
Allison S: Are there really people who don’t know what lychee is?
Right? Because in my day to day generally not like that. I have to recognize it’s a cool opportunity to be like: “okay well, let me teach you.” You're not malicious if you’re just ignorant and that's okay, because I didn't know what paella was for a long time, or something like that, right? So, yeah. I guess the other thing I'll have to say is this. A lot of my friends - most of my friends outside of work are like me in terms of ethnicity and beliefs and whatnot. It does feel sometimes foreign because I’m one way with them and I'm one way with my coworkers.
Allison S: So you started code-switching between your personal...?
Yeah, I mean I'm definitely aware of the term code switching. I do think I code switch to a degree. But I think that a lot of the things that I’ve learned in my personal life do carry over and like for example, I lead the newcomers and welcoming team in my church, and I think that lends itself very well to being able to communicate with people in general but also like people that I don't know or like seem standoffish. I'm like I’m just going to do it because I need to do it for my job, but also like I’ve experienced enough like rejection in like people-meeting that it doesn't hurt that bad. Or I'm just like I just got to do this so... But there is code switching, yes, I would say that.
Allison S: Great, and I think these are all of my questions for you today. I did have a few demographic questions. I think most of these have come up already, I think you're located in Atlanta, you grew up in the Northeast in Boston and the Philidelphia area?
That’s correct.
Allison S: Okay, did you mention your age?
I'm 28 years old.
Allison S: You're 28, okay. And your ethnic background is Chinese, and you said your parents were born in China, but you were born here.
That's right, so they were born there. They immigrated and then I was born here.
Allison S: So, would you... Yeah so, you’re second generation, you would consider yourself?
Yeah, definitely. I've gotten questions, I'll say this... Someone once asked me: “do you consider yourself more Chinese or more American?” And I was like that's a trick question. That's a hard question, I guess. I would say more American, but I my cop-out answer is I'm Chinese American.
Allison S: Sure, yeah. The last one is just what are your gender pronouns?
He/him/his.
Allison S: Perfect. Yeah, that's all my questions. I don't know if there's anything else you wanted to talk about.
I guess uh... What's the kind of timeline on what your projects is doing and everything?
Allison S: Yeah, so right now I'm just doing interviews. I think I intend to wrap that up in maybe the next month or so and then start doing more of my analysis of those interviews. So, I'll have to transcribe all the interviews and then we'll go back over them looking for different themes and see what stands out.
Okay um is there - because you said, “for now”, like does there need to be follow up or?
Allison S: No, sorry. Yeah, I just said that I don't know why
OK OK.
Allison S: I was just gonna say I'm still interviewing, though, so if you know any other people who would be interested, definitely let me know or feel free to forward their information.
Yeah, how many people are you looking for? Are there certain demographics you're trying to meet? What’s that look like?
Allison S: Um demographics, not really. I will say there are certain ethnicities that I haven't really found I don't if you know any like... let's see, who am I missing? I haven’t interviewed anyone who is Vietnamese and I could interview a few more people who are from Southeast Asia, if you know anyone.
Yeah, do they have to be in Atlanta, or what does that look like?
Allison S: No, they can be anywhere in the United States, as long as they identify as Asian American. Doesn't matter what generation, male, female, any age.
Okay, awesome.
Allison S: Just a professional work occupation.
Allison, can I share my screen for a second?
Allison S: Yeah, sure.
You have to enable share.
Allison S: How should I do that?
I think if you have a security page it should let you do that. If not, it might be an institutional thing.
Allison S: Is it not letting you share?
Oh, now it is yeah. Interesting, it wasn't before. I'm happy to answer your question. So, like I mentioned, I co-founded this group. We've grown from three co founders to 1400 almost numbers. And even down here so, she's Vietnamese, she works at hospital. He's Vietnamese, he’s also at a health system. She's Cambodian, or actually even Hmong. And we have just a lot of people from all over so, even you can see here. Okay, now I'm just flexing but there’s so much diversity between even amongst Asians. So all that to say is that well, I think it's really cool you're doing and it's like our hangouts and stuff, but two, I can certainly ask around for those type of people if you're looking. I guess, a question is how many people?
Allison S: Honestly, I would like to interview at least like another 10-15 people if possible. So yeah, as many as you think would be interested would be really awesome.
Yeah, this is different question, what are you... You're a neuroscience...?
Allison S: No, I’m sociology.
Oh sociology, okay.
Allison S: Yes, neuroscience would be amazing.
I see, sociology. Getting a master’s at Emory?
Allison S: A PhD program.
Oh excellent, excellent. Okay cool, what does one do with that? Sorry, I'm just curious.
Allison S: That's a great question. I think most people go into academia, which is what you usually get a PhD for because it's not really good for anything else. Yeah, we'll see. I mean some people use their research skills and industry doing different things, but yeah. I would like to be in academia if possible. We’ll see.
Cool, well if you are interested, we are having an event for that Asian healthcare group, so I can certainly send you details there, but I don't think it's that relevant.
Allison S: Do you have to be involved in healthcare?
You don't have to, I mean it's free for anyone to register. I just don't think it would be interesting for you, otherwise, but in case you're interested I'll send it over.
Allison S: That'd be great. Well, thank you so so much this was really interesting, and I'm very happy to meet you. Right, do you go to other NAAAP events?
um yeah so no I don't know if you were there, I went to my first event last Thursday.
Allison S: Oh at the lady bird. yeah oh me too. I was here.
that's weird where were you sitting. i'm.
Allison S: kind of close to where the people were singing like on that side of the.
oh yeah So if you, you know if you were to walk in and I guess when did you when did you get there.
Allison S: Wait one, second, let me stop this. Recording no it's a.