Yeah sure, so my name is Participant 25. I currently work at a pharmaceutical company out in the Boston area, working on data analytics insights and strategy. I’ve been in my current role for, coming up on two years. Before this I was in healthcare consulting for a couple of years. Before that, my background is an academic researcher, so I did my PhD in Microbiology from University of Georgia and then did a postdoc at University of California San Francisco for three years. So, that's sort of the educational background. Personally, I mean, I'm originally from India, came to the US for graduate studies. Married, have one kid, live over here in the greater Boston area.
Yeah so, the biggest chunk of responsibility in my current role is around forecasting for how a portfolio of products that I support is going to do the next one years, three years, ten years. Essentially, it's vital for the company to understand how each of the different drugs is going to perform so that they account for how much money is going to come in, how much do they need to manufacture, how much sort of logistic capability they need to build in. So, there's a number of downstream and upstream factors that depend on that forecast that we put together. That's the biggest chunk, and in that process, I support a number of different colleagues who forecast the price and how that's going to work for the drugs, and then subsequently, how that translates into sales because that's sort of the ultimate goal that the company is looking for is how much money is each drug anticipated to bring in so that they can plan accordingly. So, that's the biggest chunk of responsibilities. Outside of that, I support other projects that are planning for new products that are not in the market, that are still in clinical development at different stages, or maybe are not even in clinical development, but are still just being researched upon in some academic lab, for example. So, I support... trying to understand, putting together a business case for those products as to whether there's potential, is there a need for such a product in the market, what particular diseases could a molecule provides immune therapies for, so that ultimately patients can be benefited from any new drug that we bring on the market. So, I support a number of projects along that and then, a smaller part of the responsibilities is just to help the leaders put together an overall strategy on the business area of where are we doing well, where are we not doing so well, what could we be doing differently or better in the places where we're not doing well to incrementally improve over the next month or the next six months or the next year. That sort of strategy aspect is a smaller portion of my responsibility right now.
It's a hybrid approach, so I go into the office one to two times a week right now. But that's only... maybe as of the last couple of months? Before that, I was almost exclusively remote. I joined this company in August 2020 so in the middle of the pandemic, probably for the first 18 months I maybe went into the office twice.
No. I mean solo workers are much, much smaller company. The majority of it is either understanding the workstreams that others have done, so diagnostic are explaining my work to other leaders or other companies. So, a lot of the time is spent in meetings and discussing basically what will be done, is that the best approach, are we thinking of everything else, etc. And then part of these forecasting cycles that are the big chunk of my role is putting together executive decks that are then used to communicate anywhere from the business unit head to the US head all the way to the CEO of the company. I present those slides, those executive decks that I put together multiple times through each leader to make sure we are telling a very coherent story, a very clear and compelling story. A good chunk of the work is just collaborating for the meetings and facilitating discussions.
Yeah. Overall, at my current company the work culture is definitely on the more laid back side. It is because no one can really do the job well by themselves. A lot of stakeholders for input, as well as output and it's generally a very collegiate and collaborative atmosphere. Of course, with senior leadership, there is that dynamic of formality that comes up, but overall in the folks that I interact with on a regular basis for my work it's a very laid back, very friendly atmosphere. Very easy to work with, for the most part.
That's a hard question, that probably changes day to day. Like today, I would say maybe an eight or nine. Maybe an eight. Because right now... So, the forecasting piece of my responsibility that's the biggest chunk, there are three sort of cycles, planning cycles that happen every year.  Right now, we're in the middle of two cycles, so the workload is much lower, much more manageable. If we were in the middle of a particular forecasting cycle, my answer would be closer to like a five or six most likely, because just the amount of work that has to happen during those times, the  demands on the hours become very intense. But yeah, right now it’s (…).
Yeah, I mean, I would say there is a big group of people that I interact with on a daily basis, I mean I can't say that I'm friends with everyone, I can’t say that I absolutely hate everyone. It depends on person to person so, my immediate manager and my immediate report, the person that I supervise, I would say that I'm friends... between friendly and friends with, I mean I’ve not been in this particular role for too long or on this particular team for too long. So, it’s not like I have years and years of background with everyone. There are other folks in the broader team that I collaborate with on a daily basis, or maybe two to three times every week that I'm either friendly or friends with. So, it sort of spans the spectrum of every sort of... There are some people that I just have a working relationship with, a professional relationship. I don't really interact with them outside of my work responsibilities. But there are other people that I’m trying to meet with my outside-of-work hours.
Maybe that's too broad a question. I don't know how to answer properly. If we are talking about individual personality, I think I'm generally able to present myself. I don't have to sort of pose a different face, if that makes sense. Is that sort of along the lines of what you were asking about? Because when it comes to the work itself, sometimes you just have to pretend that you know things that maybe you don't have a full understanding of because maybe you're expected to, maybe they somehow assume that you know things, and then you just have to sort of go along with it, or you have to... In that one moment, you have to pretend that you know more than you do, and then maybe later on you try to figure out what's going on, so maybe there are times as part of like the work responsibility, as part of the fact that I'm managing and supervising someone. From the work knowledge base perspective, maybe there are times where you have to pretend, but from an individual personality perspective, I have never... I don't think I feel the pressure that I can’t be myself or I have to act a different way or act a particular way.
Yeah... Let me see how to put this. I think when it comes to presenting or talking about emotions, positive emotions are more easily acceptable, more easily digested, more easily communicated than negative ones. So, I have a 15 year old who's wild on days, like go crazy. If I'm having a tough day at work because I mostly still work from home, whereas my wife mostly goes to work. Like maybe once in a while, I can say that: “I’m just having a tough day.” (…) If I’m distracted or I haven't been able to do something at a particular time, but I don't think I can always say that: “oh I'm I’m distracted because of my baby,” or something like that. I don't know if that's particularly unique to me, or if this state, the situation, I think that that's probably true in general, but yeah emotionally that's sort of the biggest... It’s not even a limitation, that's just the reality, I think there is a limited capacity from other people to sort of digest or to accept negative emotions from anyone, probably.
Yeah, I mean, it's happened about both work-related things and personal life things, more so work-related things because, as I said, I don't have years-long friendships with anyone on this team yet. So, I don't know if I would feel too comfortable venting about personal life. But I mean, work-related things definitely. If we are feeling frustrated because our laptops are not working because someone else is making silly mistakes, which they shouldn't be making based on their experience, based on their tenure, or whatever. Sure, there are venting sessions. On personal life, I gave the example of my baby. My person that I supervise, he has two kids of his own so, there's just that familiarity that I can (…) certain issues I can vent, but yeah. Definitely on the work side, less on the personal side.
Um, sure...
Yeah, but are we talking company wide or more so, just like the team that I interact with on a daily basis.
So, if we start at the company level, this is a global, multinational company. Honestly, we probably have like 40,000 employees, so I don’t really know good statistics around demographics. I know that DE&I has been a big focus of our company over the last couple of years, and generally the company... in a lot of public surveys, public rankings of good companies based on X, our company is generally... we are viewed pretty favorably. When it comes to gender equality, maybe just gender equality and inclusivity, at least on those two scales (…) generally viewed pretty favorably. I honestly don't know about racial diversity, I just don't know. If we focus on my immediate team, let's say... I’ll include my immediate team and then the folks from other teams that I interact with on a regular basis and combine them into one group. So I would call it, let's say a group of 14 people. So, starting with gender: ten males four females. We have probably five nationalities. If we talk about race, it becomes a harder question. The majority of them would be Caucasian, white. One African American, two of Asian descent.  Yeah, so two Asian descent, one African American, the rest would be Caucasian. That would be the diversity from a race perspective. If you talk about age, I would say all of them fall somewhere between 25 years and maybe 50 years. Maybe we have one person older than that and I'm not sure, but majority of them would be 25 to 45 or 50, somewhere in that range, with more concentration between like 30 to 40. (…) Was there any other parameter on which (...)?
Definitely more male than female. More white than any other race.
I don't think so. At least in this role, I don't think there's ever been an overt occasion where I’ve felt that way. Has my gender or my race mattered... No, I don't think so, no.
I don't think so, no. I mean if I had, it would have immediately surfaced. I would have remembered it, but in general, because it's a big company because there's a decent diversity of all different kinds of backgrounds, I have personally, fortunately never been exposed to that.
I mean, I'm definitely more reserved than an average person. I'm pretty sure about that. Yeah, I mean it's harder for me to communicate or express to most people overall, yeah.
I think that's just how I’ve always been? Yeah, I mean it's definitely gotten more and more like that as I’ve grown older.
Yeah, I think that's how I've always been.
I think, like societally, gender does play a role. I mean, definitely with my wife I wouldn't ever feel uncomfortable sharing anything, but beyond her, I don't think there are too many people that I would be able to share anything and everything with. I don't think so. Part of it is probably societal, part of it is just me, part of it is probably the way Indian culture and Indian society is, where men are not supposed to be emotional, express emotions, have emotions is probably too extreme. But yeah, I think that Indian society definitely, and my upbringing definitely plays a role that that. So maybe like overtly, maybe just subliminally, how you’re raised, what sort of examples you're exposed to in culture, in people around you, your elders, your family, youor relatives. I think that that probably does shape part of why I am the way I am.
Interesting. Probably frustration is the most common one. When someone is being difficult, in terms of giving you the information that you want, or like things are not working the way you think they should. I mean, I do a lot of forecasting analytics so if I’m having difficulties working in excel... Yeah, frustration is probably the most common emotion at work, interspersed with other positive, happier emotions.
Yeah, I mean there are occasions where you can. It depends on what is the source of frustration. It depends on who or what is the source of that. But yeah, there are definitely occasions where I am able to express it with a number of different people. But I mean, yeah, there are definitely occasions where you just have to keep it to yourself because it's hard to sort of gauge how it will be received and whether it will be received negatively.
Sure. So, this was probably like two or one and a half months ago, the person that I supervised was just being difficult to work with, and instead of being solution-oriented or instead of trying to want to move towards a possible solution to the problem you're having, they were more interested in just finding more problems with the work that we had done till now. We tried a couple of times to say that: “Fine, this is a problem, but we need to quickly work (…) we need to figure out what's the best solution.” But instead of trying to move in that direction, they kept finding: “oh but this part is also a problem.” It seemed like they had a better alternative, but instead of being proactive about communicating what they thought the right solution was, they wanted some sort of acknowledgement or some sort of request. Like okay, why don't you tell us the solution? So, I mean that that was frustrating. This lasted probably for a full day, if not more. So yeah definitely, you know situations like that keep happening.
Honestly, nothing except complaining to my wife. Partly it's because this person is the first time I have someone that I'm supervising, and I've only been supervisor this person for maybe three months total. So, I want to make sure that I don't say or give any feedback that's not received as constructive criticism. And I don't want to ruin the sort of relationship for the future because we will have to work pretty close together until something changes, right? So, in that moment until now I've not given any specific feedback about that situation. Maybe when it comes to like an annual review, I’ll mention something along those lines, but without specifics. But yeah, I didn't really do anything about it.
I would say in general, no one is very expressive. Yeah. I mean, in general, I would say no one is very expressive. Most people try to sort of stay on task about the work, maybe you have one comment here and there about personal emotions or feelings, but definitely not the norm.
I don't know if that's an expectation of this specific workplace or just like workplaces in general.
At my previous workplace, it was even more reserved (…) Yeah I don't think it is necessarily everyone's personality to be that way, because we have people on our team who are very extraverted overall, but still staying focused on the work and not necessarily about a personal sort of feelings emotions.
Yeah, I mean there have been occasions of... I don’t know about happiness, but accomplishment when your work is well received and well acknowledged by senior leadership. I mean fortunately there have been several occasions of that, particularly in the last six months, I would say?  Yeah, the last six months to eight months. So, I mean those are good days when someone takes their time out to personally say that the work was well-received, or that work was very helpful. Yeah.
Oh, absolutely. I don't know if emotional exhaustion is more so the cause than just like workload exhaustion?
So, workload exhaustion has definitely happened multiple times. Maybe, at least once a month, if not more. During those planning cycles that I was saying, there are weeks when you're just completely exhausted every day, but that's work that it takes. Emotional exhaustion sort of comes along with that, because if you're in a rush at work, you don’t really have the time or energy to do anything else. So, I am not able to spend time with my family, not able to like sit down and talk to my wife or anything, so that does bring emotional exhaustion. Yeah, I mean that definitely happened multiple, multiple times.
I can't say that I have any well refined strategies in all honesty. When it comes to workload, because now I’m going through this for a couple of years, I know that it's temporary and overall (…) Every everyone acknowledges that it is a bad situation, so it's not like I'm the only one, that sort of dynamic. So, generally there's been good acknowledgment around that, and understanding that once that is done, the workload has gone down, you're free to take time off and no one's going to say: “No, you need to do work.” Then immediately, there's generally a lot of flexibility in terms of taking time off for whatever reason you want, at this current company at least. So that's one coping mechanism, just looking forward to your time off. Beyond that, honestly, I don't know if I have like any other great coping mechanisms, besides just maybe just taking some time out to watch random videos on YouTube or try and grab a couple of drinks, maybe that helps. Sometimes, sleep early, but not oftentimes.
There have definitely been occasions for both. I mean, there are more reasons sometimes workload is more because I’m inefficient at certain tasks so it just takes me much longer than probably several other people. So that's one reason. There's definitely occasions where there's just that much work to do under some time crunch situation. So, I understand those situations are going to happen, sometimes they are planned, sometimes they’re unplanned. And there are definitely things that are... I don't know if it is unique to this company because I have not worked at many other companies, so I don't have that perspective, but that organizationally or sort of… Maybe not organizationally as like the global company, but the specific business area that we work under, it just feels like there are some inefficiencies and because of misguided asks from leadership, misguided expectations from leadership, inefficiencies in the process, and the different stakeholders that you have to include. So, all can be potential reasons and all have definitely happened in the last year, easily multiple times.
Personally, no. Definitely, no. I definitely read about a lot of these news articles. I remember in the beginning, a lot of those news articles coming out of San Francisco, particularly because of the heavier Asian American population over there, and I lived in San Francisco for four years, so I would definitely associate with that, could definitely even see that happening. My sort of one personal... not personal experience, but like first person knowledge of that is from my wife's best friend who is Indian, who was verbally assaulted randomly just walking on the road. The other.... this was a while ago, this was in 2016. I'm sure you can associate what happened in 2016 that led to it, but that's sort of my only first hand experience - it’s not first hand, but second hand experience with it, but it was in my immediate circle.
Boston.
I don't know. I don’t think my workplace is much different from most places. It's definitely way less formal, way more laid back atmosphere than my previous company. So, it's definitely not on the worse side of things, on the bad side of that sort of spectrum. It's a big company, as I said it’s a multiglobal pharma company, so I'm sure that just brings some inefficiencies and some challenges that are maybe only true for big companies. So there are sort of that negative side of it. But overall,  I've been pretty happy with my current company and I'm happy with... I see my work as rewarding, I like my team, so I think it's overall a pretty good workplace.
My graduate school experience was definitely good, my postdoc not so much. I mean we can start with the postdoc. I ended up with a supervisor who was an extreme micromanager, who wanted to know anything and everything about everything, on sort of almost like a daily basis. So, that was definitely not a very pleasant experience. It ended abruptly when the lab shut down, the manager decided to shut down the lab and move to the industry themselves. So that experience has definitely like left a bad taste in my mouth, probably for the rest of my life. Yeah. So, graduate school, that was definitely a very good experience. At different times, we had anywhere from like five people in the lab to like fourteen. A mix of undergraduates, graduate students, postdocs, research associates or PI. And that was the that was sort of a learning atmosphere you were free to pursue any sort of curiosity, any line of experiments that you thought was interesting. Supervisor or PI never put undue pressure in terms of why things weren't working out the way you had it expected to. So, my previous experience was definitely a very positive experience and a formative experience.
The city would be Lucknow. (…)  Northern Central India.
Indian.
36.
Yes.
If you have any other questions, definitely happy to chat more. If you have any follow-up questions later, I’m happy to chat more.
Yeah, sure. I can try to think.
Think, I remember. (...)
No, of course, for other. People, is there any particular demographic you're trying to talk to like to diversify your sample to fill out your sample. Male versus female females for specific nationality.
Okay, I can think to a few things to be interested.
You as well bye.