Okay, yes, my name is___. I am 64 years old. I grew up in the Bay area, San Francisco Bay area. And let's see, I went to UC Berkeley Graduate in political science, went to Hastings law school. Graduated 1982. And I joined the LA county public defender's office 1986, and I retired in 2017 so 31… yes 31 years public defender. I’m married, I’ve been married since 1999. I have two children, ages 22 and 18.
It's great. One just graduated from University of Michigan, and I have one starting Washington University St Louis.
Yeah, they worked hard so we're happy.
Yes. When I joined the public defender's office LA county in 1986, there weren't that many Asians, so I felt very fortunate in getting hired there, and at that time, I know there, now there are a lot more Asians doing trial work, but back then there weren't so many of us and, and so I wanted to combat the stereotype I felt growing up of, you know, being quiet reserved. And so, I wanted to fight that stereotype, and do something where would force me challenged me to not be comfortable and be vocal and advocate in court in trial. So that's why I joined the public defender's office to do that, to do trial work. And also because I had an interest in crime, in criminal defense, and rights, constitutional rights of defendants. So that's why I went into it. It was really challenging at first, because it was I’m not normally an aggressive person and…. So I found that I just rather than trying to ape what I felt a trial lawyers should be was more successful and just being myself and working that way, and that's what worked for me. Doing this kind of work. (...) It was challenging in terms of, you know, I know the way that people perceive me as… you know, so I had to fight beyond that. I always had to convince prosecutors, judges, and mostly my own clients, because they didn't trust me, and they didn't think that, you know, I could do the job. They I don't think they ever questioned my intelligence because of that stereotype, you know. I didn't think I was that smart. It was just more. I just had to work harder than other people, but that was always the challenge, was trying to overcome people's perceptions of me.
And the thing is I knew that women, Asian American women had it even tougher because they had the additional being a woman and overcoming that stereotype, double stereotype. They had even tougher than I did so…
You know, rather than trying to be super aggressive because it just wasn't my nature. So what that looks like was resorting to others’ techniques in trial. (...) Being a performer, but you can be a performer without being loud and boisterous. Still had to make an impression on people, so there was that. Having a sense of humor. But you know, along the way, though I found that I did have to unfortunately play this kind of game, or I played along with type, kind of mark the Asian stereotype without selling myself out too much. I mean there's that whole thing of “okay I don't want to be to Charlie Chan. I’m just really queuing and falling back in the stereotype,” but trying to like I tend to make fun of things and excuse me (cough). I still love that cough. Like I remember specifically using this, you know. There's that old thing the Chinese menu. I use that in one of my arguments Column A Column B Column C, you know, that old trope. But that's what I did was I would use that to attack.I use that one case to attack the prosecution's case by saying that what they did was they just chose from Column A Column B Column C, and I could tell that the jury was kind of tickled by that because here's an Asian guy kind of making fun of history, but he's using it and turn it against his opponent. So, things like that I know some people didn't like that, you know, when I would tell them about it, or they thought it was demeaning. But in that case, it was successful, and I got jurors on my side, so you know, was doing things like that….Yeah when I look back at it, I don’t know, I’m not particularly proud of things like that you know, but you know as an attorney, you do what you can to advocate for your client, to fight for your client so…As long as you don't demean yourself too much, and in that case, at the time I didn't feel like I crossed the line. A little looking back at it, that seems like I did, you know. I could see why some people would think “yeah, you really cross the line on that”, but you know, it wasn't like I would do some Ching Chong accent, or you know, do the slanted eyes or anything like that I wouldn't suit that little bit. You know, things like that.
Yes, being super prepared on the case in the long. I felt like okay, there's a stereotype of us is sometimes we'll go with that, that we were hard working reasonably intelligent, and basically trustworthy. You know, so… There were times of see I worked all over the county in LA county, so for a while I was working in Compton, which was a lot of fun, a lot of fun, but you know, it’s exciting and there's a lot of camaraderie but, you know, this was in the 90s. And so during that time in the 90s, you had the riots. We had mistrust between the Asian community, and not just the Black community, but also the Latino community, but you know, because there were tensions there, so I know that, you know, I came to the interviews, and my clients were black, and I had to build trust with them first. And I, and I realized that, and you know I experienced racism, and you know, you just have to…you have to take that and not take it personally, although it was hard at times.
I was trying to joke along with them, you know. I mean sometimes you can't I mean that's I think, having a sense of humor in this case, because in this type of work, even if you're not Asian but just generally, you have to have that…You have to have a thick skin. But his sense of humor will get you through and you know, having snappy comebacks and that kind of stuff, you know. That way you gain some measure respect sometimes. Other times there was just no getting around it, you know. Somebody just didn't want to listen to you, so wasn't too much I could do about that.
Mostly white.
That was more clients, because I like to think that public defender's office more progressive where you know it's more diverse. You come to that job you know, usually you, you do have more progressive ideas, although there is a strong undercurrent of libertarian type, you know, get the government off our vendors, those kinds of people, who are public defenders. There's my head public defender when I first joined, he was notorious. He was pro death penalty and a republican, but he was a libertarian so that's where, that's how he got into it and he was an excellent lawyer, too, so you, no matter what your views as long as you're doing the job. And it was since he was a head, he was always backing us, so you know that's all we needed, but it was interesting that I remember that he did an interview with LA Times back in the 80s, where he just came out says “yes, I'm pro death penalty,” which is odd as a public defender. But you know. Yeah, it's different um. (...)
When one interesting thing is so my probably the I spent the most time in my career in public defender's office representing sexually violent predators, and that was a specialized unit, I did that for like 12 years, and it was a new law when I came into it. (...) So you had to learn new law, you had to learn some psychology. I had to become familiar with the DSM, all the versions, and… So I think it was interesting and it was unfortunate, I think we are unit got the reputation of the lawyers are mostly Asian in there, and Asian and white. And that was it, and so there was a reputation… We got the reputation of you know “okay these guys are more like, called, you know, like we call it ‘undergraduate college’”, because it wasn't the law strictly. It was law and psychology, so it wasn't the usual practice of criminal, criminal defendants representing from defendants. So that was my son, excuse me.
So there was that stereotype again like “oh Asians studious that's why they're doing this kind of law because there's a lot of reading and studying.” Though we still went to court and did our share trials, so there was a little side thing.
Yeah, I guess you say nerdy because we did a lot of reading you know. And people, you know, I think it public defenders think “okay, you going into trial” and that's true. Kind of seat of the pants, you know, quick on your feet, that type of thing. I was never really good at that. If I put a lot of sweat intro preparing then that's how I did my thing. I wasn't particularly quick on my feet. I didn't, as long as I prepared a lot and it just through experience. Then I got better but everybody has his own style so.
As well as growing up, I grew up in a mainly white community. My high schools, let’s see, is about 1200 people. There are maybe five Asians in like… Okay, so class 3,7, 5 Asians in my class, so there was always this sense that they always saw me as other you know. Even though I grew up there, all my friends were white. They're going up so. Yeah, I guess it was just that becoming you know, and this was in the 70s, so I did have exposure to the identity issue you know Asian American this. (...)
Yeah, so uh but you know, not all Asians felt the same way or went that way. I think it's a combination, you know. It's your personality what you're interested in. (...) I always had (...) somewhat of a rebellious nature, although I didn’t, you know, they wouldn’t call me a rebel, but it was more like challenging authority type of thing. And especially with my dad and my dad was an engineer, so he always wanted to be a doctor. So, when I, and I was going to go into sciences till about the time I was 16, it was just you know… And I met some other Asian Americans in the bay area, so I was at my consciousness raised back then, so it kind of went in with my finding myself and asserting myself more identity, Asian American identity. And so I went away when I wanted to become a lawyer, he just like flipped and said who's gonna hire a Chinese lawyer, and this is back in the 70s, so you know, that was a legitimate concern. I mean nowadays geez there's so many Asian lawyers all over the place, so it's kind of funny, you know, thinking back to that time it was such a big deal. Yeah, it was. That's why I wanted to do it, and I had to be trial a lot, and it had to be criminal because I wanted to like just you know get out of the whole comfortable suburb, growing up in the white suburb, type of upbringing.
You know, it took so much out of me and um. (...) yeah it just it took a lot out of me. It affected my marriage. I mean thankfully we're still together married and my family. It was just a lot of pressure. They became alcoholic. (...) You know, like my wife, at one point, said… Well, she told me, it was when I was in that sexually violent predator unit, where I just really went downhill the case… And it wasn't because of the nature of the cases it was, it was because people think that “all it’s because you're representing sex offenders, and you're trying to get them out”, so what that law is… I’ve already been convicted in and done all this prison time. (...) But what happened was it was came on the tail of the three strikes law where you had these long-time offenders, sex offenders, who were getting out and some of them were still committing crimes. So, this new law, they call SVP sexy violent predator law came into being in other states enacted it to where they would keep these guys in mental hospital. And even though that sounds like double jeopardy and double punishment keeping these guys and beyond the prison time. The way they justified it was these guys are mentally ill so we're just going to keep them in. Definitely, and they have a right to petition. They have a right to a trial, jury trial to get out, but very few of them would get out (…) So it was just disappearing after well because I couldn't get a lot of these guys out, even though I felt like you know they deserve to be out. Some of them know they were truly dangerous and but some of them were just you know caught up in this whole political, their political ponds.
I felt and was just you know hopelessness/ You know they would call me and we taught, you know. after a while I just they didn't like to talk to because I know what to tell them, so it set me in a in a spiral. And so let me and at one point, my wife said you got to get out of that unit, or you know they see going to leave you because it's just taking too much alcohol. So. So, luckily, I got out of it, and for a while I fought it because it was one of these things were no but my clients need me, you know. I’ve been doing this longer than anybody, I’m the only one that can help them right so. Then she said no you're not feel good. You're really good, but you know you're destroying your family your marriage so. (...)
So that was the best so that's why, you know, when you it's funny when you asked me that you know it's hard for me to rate because yeah I mean I couldn't imagine doing any other kind of job or law because me at a there's no way I could work in an office or what sort of the firm corporate firm or be a prosecutor because, you know, I like sticking up for the underdog and like, you know, fighting the powers and I like being the rebel and trying to fight the stereotypes and you know, to giving the middle finger figure to legal system. So, I enjoyed doing that, but then I didn't enjoy that. The toll it took. You know, to this day I can't… I mean I went on inactive status. A lot of people do that when they retire, and that just means that you don't you're not eligible to practice law until you reactivate your license, but in the meantime you're… yeah you don't practice law you don't, you don't have to pay the full bar dues. You don't have to take continuing education. That was a real pain, because I have no desire to practice law at this point, and probably never, ever, because just dealing with the clients and the demands and it's really hard for me. To go back to that.
I’m reserved and private and it's gotten more so over the years. When I was young, I would just fly off the handle and just, yeah. I think I’ve just buried a lot of things. You know.
Yeah, there were… You know, I had to talk to some people about it and the very few because it wasn't something that you know. It's like a sign of weakness right if you start, I mean that's, you know, and then that's really unhealthy, that's really healthy, but that was you know, I was, I was more like old school that way, and what you do is you know you hit the bar after work, and you know with like minded people, which was really bad. Because I thought of them, you know. They died young, died early, died young, or just you know went off the deep end so. I know that the office has better about that. public defender's office it's better about that. Trying to reach out to people dealing with that, but I think I was because when I started that you still had a lot of dinosaurs who you know, believe in the old ways, you know just didn't it was like a module thing to do that, and women with… some of the women we do that, and again at the 90s, go back to the women, how it was tougher on them because, you know, they had to deal with double, the double discrimination and the thing is (…) Yeah so many of them were the ended up. You know, not having family, you know it was just it was just too difficult until you're single, and they were just you know people would… I mean they were kind of eccentric you know, and I felt bad because I knew I knew the reason, you know, it was just so the way that they were treated the way they thought of things, you know, we couldn't help. And so I mean at least I had…The best part for me was when my kids were still young and it's coming home, and you know just seeing the joy is… “Daddy!” you know, and I mean that was the best part. And you know. And then that went a long way toward, you know, my mental health, you know, but after a while it was just like too much. So (…)
But yeah, I guess everybody… I mean there were some people who were deeply religious, and I respect that. When one of our, one of our icons that totally lawyer and he had an art depth on section, Charlie Guess. While he was a Baptist. He was ordained, and he was deeply deeply religious and, you know, that's the way, but he, it wasn't like he was trying to force it on you and convert you know. It was it was always private with him, but he was always at peace, and you know, I was thinking, you know, it takes something like that to get through this. You know, something you need something. But I didn't have that, you know, not being a religious person.
Yeah, just try to be with family as much. And extended family. My wife is Filipino and well, and actually she always says… but I’m really not a Filipino because I don't have a huge extended family, although it to me, it's big because I don't have that many. I just had my sisters and my parents passed and my cousins are all out of state when I’m very close, you know. So always to get togethers always meant a lot to me, and you know just being around in normal family situation, very supportive. (...)
Yeah, it was almost always dealing with a difficult client (...) So it was it that was the other reason it got really bad was that always fall at the end of my career there in that unit. It was I couldn't trust my clients, so I was always watching. I was just always trying to cover myself all the time, because I felt like they're going to come back and, you know, try to that not physically harm me, but you know, legally whatever file a lawsuit and public defenders to get sued quite a bit. Because, you know, these guys have nothing to lose, I understand that you know, trying to get out second or second but, at the time, you know, and they can be really unpleasant you know they had their mental issues too. You know, Being psychopaths. (...) So many of them were really high on the psychopathy scale, you know, so I always felt like they're trying to, you know, get the better of me and try to…and always trying to find my weak point. You know, so that that was really tough to deal with, and others that were just straight past hostile and not being able to deal with it. There're many times the shouting matches, which you know, and sometimes it was just I was just have to walk away there was… you know. Sometimes I felt like “I’m not going to let the sky get the better of me”, which was till you know, then I was like going down to his level, but you know it was just, I was just so into it, you know, like me, it's me against him, but you know. Yeah, that was that was pretty awful. Those are probably the most stressful times because I just didn’t feel good at all after that.
Well, I had to see… I had one client who I just work the hell out of his case. I had... I tried hard to get four experts appointed form, whereas we were technically only allowed to have two but I just kept pushing in it, arguing it. So I got it first well now. We lost anyway, but he was always so difficult, and he ended up… You know, I felt an appeal on his behalf. Nothing came out of it, had one of the best appellate lawyers and state of California on this type of law, and we talked about it. And she told me, “did you know that your client followed his own appeal claiming ineffective assistance of counsel?” and I just like, you know, just shook my head, had to laugh, you know. The thing about these cases that they come back that was the other thing about these kids they wouldn't end because even after he was committed to state hospital, he had the right to challenge it. Somewhere down the line to get out, and so I had to would have to represent him again. And I remember saying, “oh yeah,” you know, I said “when are you going to tell me that.” You follow your own appeal, and it's kind of like “hey man, you know nothing personal” and users have to. So yeah that was that's the thing. You just can't take it personally you know. They're just doing what they have to do, but you know, after a while it just gets wearing on you. So.
All the above yeah. (...)
In the thing is, I know that women also felt like they couldn't express their feeling. I mean some of them, you know which yeah which I understood too “well, she's all locked up like that,” you know. So yeah you're right it's all of the above, all of those reasons.
Just having to show how tough I am, can't push me around. Even though it's not directly, I can see now, that directly related to that, but it's part of the whole image that you have to put out there. I’m tough. I’m as tough as you are.
After well it's just it sounds like a point of pride, but you know I know that looking back you know inside you're just kind of tearing yourself up. You're destroying yourself inside, and then it comes out, you know, with the booze. It turns out in other ways.
Oh yeah following with great interest. (laughs) Yeah, even though in my community, they don't say “I live in this Community, Arcadia.” It's like, I don't know, 70% Asian, so we don't really see it out here that much.
If it also but I know that it happens, you know, elsewhere, and you know it's yeah. It's weird and it's disheartening to me because you see it in New York, in urban centers in San Francisco, Oakland, in New York, and (...) It was, what's the disheartening thing to me is that, I don't know, maybe we have some friends of mine, you know, that were lefty activists like me, but still are in and they say, “oh no, that's you know the media's is distorting.” It seems like there's a lot of African American in the violence. I mean it is just media presenting it, you know, and it's the mental illness part, I know, but then I know I guess it sounds like a process where the prosecutor would say the argument. And if they are mentally ill, why don't they, why don’t they express it in racial terms? Why don't they just like walking down the street naked then expressing their mental illness on the subway? Yeah, I know the majority that incidents, whether violent or nonviolent are propagated by whites. So, I see downs, like the verbal stuff. So, the disheartening thing is that yeah, it's like, you know, how can I joke with my friends or how come the brothers are being honest? You know, I know that in our struggles are the same. They're linked together and then you know. Then it seems like somebody is dividing us, and making us go against each other, like that. And yeah, I don't know it's really disappointing yeah.
Because the struggles that you know, working together with the students in the old days, and other activists, you know, days you know, we had a rainbow coalition because…yeah so.
Yeah that was kind of scary because, you know, it was even though I think the media there played up the whole, it was may see me mainly the Korean, you know, that was the stereotype Korean convenience store owners and the community, black community, and you know, come they're not you know so there's been you know that's what set it off, though, was the Latasha Harlins, Sunja Do case, and you know. Latasha was gunned down and. And then. (...) Sunja Do was… she was given probation so I mean that was like in 1991, and so when that happened, that was like lighting the views. and then, it was Rodney King and just boom exploded. So that was alone, I live in the San Gabriel Valley out here, which is east of LA, downtown LA, so we weren't affected so much by the riots, by the unrest. It's funny I remember now pending on your…Where you lay on the political spectrum, some people I know it's funny I just call it writes down but, at the time it's like unrest and then, if like you were away left, it was rebellion. Okay, so I think I said unrest back then. It’s just I’m older and more conservative. (laughs) Kids.
Because I wasn't in Compton yet, so I was still working in San Gabriel Valley, so I didn't represent that many black clients so wasn't… It’s interesting I didn't… I started working content in 1993, so still yeah, I got a little bit of that, got a little bit of that but… Here's a funny when I look back at it, I think it was kind of funny, I do too, when I was interviewing and the new black client one time and I had a rough day, and so I just was really kind of in a bad mood and I remember this guy said, “hey what's the matter, does somebody break into your liquor store?” And then just my response was “no but we shot your brother trying to break in.” That kind of back and forth, but he laughed. So, you know, like I know somebody probably would have been offended, could have been but that's the way we dealt with things back then.
That definitely worked yeah I mean other times, I know that. You know, go, we just say a few I want another lawyer.
Yeah, they happen all the time.
A step back and forth type of stuff. You know, and you know, so yeah, there's a thing in California, where client can request another lawyer. They're rarely granted though, because otherwise you'd have guys always. It was just going on and on and on and keep requesting, so it really has to be a justifiable reason like “I’m not doing my job.” So, any other that kind of back and forth stuff. It's never grounds.
Most of times it was fine. It was just like a little game playing, guys blowing off steam, you know. As long as he saw that I was doing my job, trying to write, you know, it was guaranteed. Client control maneuvers on we would finally go to trial. See a lot of times see that's the reputation of public defenders they call us dump trucks. We dump cases. We just plead guys guilty, which is a misnomer, because only the client can plead guilty. We have no right to plead guilty unless he agrees to it. Unless he wants it. It's his decision but anyway I’m different went to trial, so that was fighting the case so automatically. You know we are, are they respected us more there and then even more respect was when it came time to pick a jury young, you have a right to kick off up to 10 people for no reason, as soon as you exercise that challenge, I think, an excuse or number, they would go, like “alright,” like that some. Little things like that. And the.
Public defenders in general they always too because well, that was the other thing was that because technically our services were appointed, and our services are no cost, so they always felt like “well you know you're not getting paid, so you're not trying,” you know whether you go to trial or not, so they always felt like we weren't trying for them, or we were in league with the da or the judges or you know, like that so.
Actually at the time, but for a long time LA county we were the highest paid public defenders in the country, but because we disbanded our union in the 90s, and they kind of went downhill, so the pay is not near the top anymore, but I got out before then. (...) And then I used to carry around this is how bad it got. I used to carry around this. There was actually a study done on outcomes between public defenders, private lawyers, and there's a difference. There are public defender offices that are like this is the whole office, called the public defender's office, and we're trained and then you have ones who are appointed, private lawyers who are appointed by the judge, you know our offices are big typically bigger, and we go through training and. You know, so protocols and everything. so anyway this study it showed that our outcomes are actually as good or better than the private appointed lawyers, and then when you're talking about strictly private lawyers who are paid, yeah, if they have more resources, then we like only (unclear) case, then their outcomes are going to be better, but actually the outcomes because I feel like as a whole because we do this every day. we're in court all the time because there's no substitute for experience. we're actually better than most lawyers.
We have we have the experience. But unless you know we're outspent then, then we are better than anybody else. So, I mean you get you know these cases. I mean I’ve read about this, particularly in the south, older cases though, where I mean it's just horrendous, the ineffective assistance of counsel and this because they don't get paid, you know, what they get paid is peanuts. They don't have you know full offices of public defender, so you got guys who are like coming to during trial, and I’ve read these cases. They were just drunk off their asses during case, and the stand I were in one case sky stood up to make an objection and just fell flat on his face because…
So intoxicated and he didn't reverse the guys conviction.
This case I know (unclear) that case, but you know serious felony case so.
Yeah, well you know, it's really hard to reverse the case I’ve seen. What they use the standard that if there's like a mountain of evidence, they wouldn't have made any difference because of all the evidence they had against the defendant, they were not going to reverse the case. I mean that's basically the standard which is just crazy.
Well, I was just thinking like what gave me joy though, because I’ve turned into something so many negatives. I wanted to tell you that the joyful parts are when I was able to perform and like get a jury like nodding with me like the performance aspect because I guess, deep down, even though I’m pretty shy and introverted but once I’m in that setting, and because I did so many trials probably like the actually for public defender and I wasn't that many, but over 100 trials, so it was like that courtroom was my stage, and I got so used to it. So, I guess the performance aspect of it gave me joy. (…) Going up to it, though, is eight I used to play violin I guess that was a part of it, I used to play violin, and so I was kind of used to performing and I like that, but also didn't like the anticipation, because you know I felt like throwing up before you know, but once I was into it like “okay I’m into it.” This is my… This is my world now so. Fulfilling that whole you know Asian American, you know, identity that part of it is really satisfying, gratifying.
I was yeah, I mentioned, where I grew up, I was born in Jeffersonville Indiana. I don't know anything about it because, like yeah, it's my parents. My parents came over as college students from China 1951. My dad was before 1950 because he just escaped the revolution, when my mom was in Hong Kong, so you know that wasn't China back then, but they met and Oklahoma State University in the early 50s. And so they made their way out way out West in the 50s, working short period time Indiana, so that's why I was wondering I don't remember anything about it grew up basically in California time I was three, and it was always in white communities, because they, you know, they wanted to do similarly they were part of that you know, so I didn't learn how to speak Chinese, going to speak English here. can't have an accent, you know, because people make fun of you look down on you, so there was that thing, so I grew up kind of being ashamed, so there was that part I don't want to be ashamed. I, you know, don’t want to be Asian here.
Yes.
Just he, him. Yeah, yeah. Like I get a little panicked because oh man that's a new...
They are about my age. yeah.
For sure, sure well.