Yes, so um I was born in China.
I moved to the US when I was five. My parents came here for grad school um so I guess I learned English pretty early, so um yeah.
I guess education-wise - went to high school in Florida, went to college at Cornell University in New York and majored in mechanical engineering.
And then I got my first job out of college in Massachusetts. It was an engineering job for a company that does like automotive sensors and yeah. That was my first job, I was there for like about three years and then I moved to California, which is where I am currently and I've been at a few different jobs since then. Actually, quite a few. I don't think it's normal. But I basically switch jobs every two to three years it seems.
Yeah, yeah I think also like with our generation, right? Where we're like a lot of us just don't stay at the same job for a while, because it's hard to get like raises and promotions, and all that stuff um. So yeah I’ve been in the medical device industry, since I moved to California. So I've been there for about 9 or 10 years now, which is kind of crazy um but yeah. A few of the larger MED device companies, I was at St Jude medical, which is now Abbott. And I was also at Medtronic and more recently I've been working at more of like startup environments. I actually just started a new job three weeks ago.
Thanks, yeah so my startup wasn't doing you know too great so. I was worried that it was gonna die, so I found something else, it's another startup. But it's further along in the product development process so I'm not as worried about it folding.
Yeah so I was previously in diabetes products, but now it's neurovascular stroke treatment devices so it's a little different but yeah.
Yeah so for the most part I've been in either like process or manufacturing engineering, which just means that I support the manufacturing of the products. So, a lot of the time it involves doing just you know day to day support of any production issues.
And then also introduction of new products, I also do process development which just means you know, like you know, increasing our yields, capacity things like that.
Yeah so the company I'm at right now is actually pretty small. It's about 30 people. 10 of which are production personnel so like operators, and then there's like 20-ish, I guess like office people. I don't interact with too many of them, I would say, maybe like six to eight people max?
Yeah so um there's my manager who like who mentors me and gives me assignments, and then I also have like a quality engineering counterpart, who kind of I guess checks my work, essentially, is what is what quality does. And then, not at this job, but at my previous job, the other people I would be interacting with are just like people on my team who have a similar role or do what I do. At my current position it's just me.
Yeah, I think I do also interact with some of the operators just working with them on the process, but not a ton.
I do not, which I'm pretty happy about.
Yeah just like I mean none of my engineering jobs, but like when I worked at like Publix for a summer. I worked at a takeout place for a summer, and you know I had to interact with customers there and it was just really unpleasant.
Yeah sure. Actually I think I'll just go back to my previous experience because I don’t have a feel for my current one yet.
Interview: Sure, yeah. That’s fair.
So um my previous job, the environment was like mostly engineers, some like logistics like finance and clinical people but mostly engineers. I want to say, maybe like a third of them were like around my age or like you know from college to early 30s type of ages. It was actually pretty well balanced, as far as like male and female goes, which was pretty nice. So yeah I share an office with two other females. As far as other demographics, I want to say it was like mostly Caucasian, a few... like a handful of Asians. Um yeah not super diverse.
Racially yeah. I guess, like the as far as like the culture goes, it was just like a very collaborative environment. So you know we all sat in like our little cubes that were next to each other and it was pretty common to like, you know walk over if you had a question, or like um... Yeah I guess you know just a lot of...I mean I worked pretty closely with some with a good number of people actually so it was nice, it was pretty...I would say it was pretty fun. I mostly hung out with the people my age. But yeah, I mean people were pretty cool.
yeah so I have like um... let's see... probably like three or four coworkers that I became pretty close with. I actually joined a running group that one of them was part of.
They like got a bunch of people at work to join so it's like every Wednesday, so we do that outside of work. Other than that, you know, we would get dinners occasionally. We actually did travel together. One of our contract manufacturers is in Arizona, so we would go out there pretty often. So I think being able to hang out there was pretty nice too. Going out to dinner and stuff like that.
um I actually felt pretty good about being myself, actually I mean, maybe I shouldn't have but, I was pretty open about my feelings about the company and, like other people. Like if I was you know complaining about people or something, I would be pretty open about it, and you know, usually they’re you know... they find it pretty easy to relate or like they'll complain with me and stuff like that. I know you're not really supposed to do that with coworkers, at least like that's what people tell me. They're like “oh you can't really trust your coworkers and stuff, like they'll go behind your back” and stuff, and I'm like I don't really think that was true, I think they are like legitimately my friends. So, I didn't feel any issues with that I think like towards the end of when I was there, we were all...like a lot of people were pretty frustrated with the company, so we were pretty open about like our salaries and you know other people's salaries, so I think we were actually pretty close.
mm hmm yeah but you know with a select few people. There's definitely others that you know I feel like I'm friends with, but I wouldn't share that kind of information.
Yes, so I think I have emotions but I do tend to hide it pretty well I think? So, like a lot of my coworkers, especially the ones I don't know very well, they just see me as really calm right? So like even if I'm really stressed, they don't really see that. They just think I have it all together. But you know the ones that I'm closer with I’ll be more open about like: “hey i'm really stressed or i'm really upset that this happened”. But for the most part, I would say that… I would say that I hide it pretty well.
um I want to say it just naturally happens because I'm just not like a very expressive person in general, so like even if I'm like really excited about something... people can't really tell. I just tend to be like very reserved in general I think, and I'm not sure like where that really came from. I think probably just like part of how I was raised, like I didn't have siblings right and I didn't really have anyone to express things to, so I just mostly like kept things to myself.
Um, I've seen people at work getting really emotional and sometimes like higher up people, like managers right, they'll get really upset and start yelling at people and I don't think that's really good. So I definitely feel like it at least has somewhat of an advantage, where like you know I can maintain like professionalism, because I don't you know ever... I don't have outbursts usually right. You know and meetings and things like that, like I'll do it on the side like with my own people, but you know in front of others. I think it's I think it's a good thing for the most part, I do kind of I mean... I'm not sure about like whether or not it hinders me. I’m not really sure. I can't really think of um... I'm sure there is there is a downside to it, but I can't really think of what that is right now.
Yeah I would say, probably just more of like social repercussions. So, like you know afterwards, people would kind of you know gossip and be like like: “whoa can you believe what he said?” and, like um... I just know they get criticized sometimes for being unprofessional, like you can't just do that.
So yeah I think that's probably the... I don't know, maybe some people don't mind it? I definitely don't think it's cool to do that.
I want to say not directly but like indirectly, definitely. And it, you know it makes me feel bad and feel embarrassed. I don't know that I really ever said anything about it, like called anyone else being like: “hey you probably shouldn't do that in front of all these people”.
Well, I'm just really non-confrontational in general, so.
Singled out not really. I mean, do you maybe have like an example? I guess, I can't really think of any example.
Yeah sure, so I feel like for the most part, my emotions at work are just like... I mostly feel stressed. So, like working in manufacturing, it tends to be really fast-paced because you gotta you know meet your numbers and all that stuff and if issues come up... you know, they need to be solved really quickly. So, I think I've definitely had moments where I just felt completely overwhelmed, like there was too much on my plate. And when that happens, I tend to kind of just shut down a little bit. Like I just don't even know what to do, I don't even know where to get started. Which maybe, you know, isn't a totally bad thing, because then I can kind of like you know, take a bit of a breather and kind of reset a little bit. I think what does help in those situations is you know just taking a break and talking to other people about it.
mm hmm. Yeah I think the last time I remember being super stressed was when I was at St Jude Medical. I was working as a manufacturing engineer and I don't know, I just had so much to do, and I felt overwhelmed. I just went into my friend’s office and I sat under her desk and I was like: “I'm just gonna hide here for a little bit like.... tell people not to bother me”.
Yeah,she totally understood. She was like: “Yeah I get it, I have those moments too”. So yeah.
Yeah, I think so. I think just kind of like removing myself for a little bit and trying to... yeah I don't know like... trying to calm myself down, I guess. But really just not paying attention to it for a little bit.
Yeah I think it varies. I think other people I've worked with have also been stressed, but I've also worked with people who are just like super chill. They're just like: “hey, like this thing went totally wrong but there's not much I can do about it, so it is what it is”. And I hear that a lot, “it is what it is”. That helps me calm down a lot, I also at some point I started taking like anti anxiety medication, and that helped a lot too. I think that with the combination of like having more years of experience, where I have a better sense of what really matters and what doesn't. It's like all those like smaller things that I was stressed about earlier in my career, now I know like “oh it doesn't really matter that much”. So, I think you know, like, in the past few years I've calmed down a lot.
Yeah for sure, and I told them like: “hey you know, like do what you can but honestly, it doesn't matter that much.”
I guess I'm a little biased, because my industry tends to be more male dominated, but as far as like the people getting emotional at work, it tends to be people in positions of higher power, and they also tend to be male. Yeah, but I also just don't work with a whole lot of females so it's a little hard.
Yes, I don't… I don't think so. Nothing I can think of.
Yeah um, so I would actually say my my previous job, which was at the small startup for that did the diabetes stuff. That was probably my favorite.
It was like 50 people so a little bit bigger um but not a whole lot bigger. But I would say, like job satisfaction there... Like in 8 of 10. Um... Did you want me to elaborate?
Yeah I think the thing that stops it from being higher is that the product we were working on wasn't really making much progress and I felt like we were going around in circles. And I didn't really agree with... like management, they were really like... they were overly optimistic about it. Like, especially when they're trying to convince me not to leave and stuff, and I was just like “hey I've been here for like two and a half years, and we really haven't made much progress so”. Anyway, but otherwise, I really liked the people that I worked with there.
I liked the work that I was doing. I thought you know, because it was in the early stages of development, it was just a lot more... you know a lot less red tape and there was a lot that I could do without like bureaucracy. And you know it's just easier for me to get things done.  And things moved, you know pretty quickly. So, I think those things are what makes it an eight, which I think is you know pretty good.
Yeah so, Ilike my boss. I like the work that I'm doing so far. I think the only thing that I'm a little hesitant about is that it doesn't seem as collaborative as my last workplace. So I've been you know, mostly doing solo work so far and haven't really made any friends yet, which makes me a little sad, but you know it's only been three weeks so it's still a little early. There's probably you know, like fewer people who are my age. So, it just feels a little lonely.
Um… I don't think so. I would say it's still the same, like the way I act at work is still the same.