Okay, um so I was born in Georgia, Duluth area-ish, Duluth, Georgia.  My parents actually immigrated from South Korea to the US, so I don't know if that's called like first-generation in the US, or second gen or something like that. But yeah, they came here so that their kids can have like a better life, with more opportunities, I guess. I started working part-time at Publix in junior year of high school, I think I was fifteen or sixteen, and then from that point, I got into UGA and there I also worked at Publix, the one in Athens. And then I went from Publix to delivery driving for a little bit, so like GrubHub, DoorDash, that kind of deal. It wasn't that great. So I moved on to Dominos, and so I delivered pizza and that was a little better, but that was... um... Yeah, okay, I had a Dominos phase. And then after that, I got an internship with Kohl’s, so I got a free trip to New York, something with like NRF foundation, and basically it's like a whole networking program where you get hired for like internships like retail companies that are starting to move towards tech, and so I got an internship at Kohl's. I did that for three months in the summer, and then after that I didn't have a job for like six months, I think? Yeah six months after that... six months, and then I got a scanning job, actually. So I would go around Kroger stores, I forgot the name of the company, but I would go around Kroger stores and I’ll just scan a bunch of products like it was something like really easy. And then, after that I applied to Macy's and I got the job, and here I am today.
Did you want to hear more about education-wise? I studied mechanical engineering for the first year. And then I realized oh it's not that great here at UGA, like it's great, but like I didn't think I was going to be able to do like... I didn't think I was going to overachieve to like where I could do great things with it, so I switched to computer science and I really enjoyed that and I got that degree and now I’m at Macy’s so.
um so about a year now, I think sometime this... last year I started. Yeah, so like about a year.
Yeah so, I'm a software engineer, just like the entry-level software engineer position. There, every day, we have a stand-up, so we give our status: what we did yesterday, what we do... what we're gonna do today. I manage a lot of like the Java services. So, a lot of programming and a lot of just communicating with the team, if something goes wrong and we got to hop on that um...  I'm also training a new hire as of today. We got a new hire that just graduated from... he just graduated from KSU. So, I'm training him. That's pretty much the gist of it, just like coding, maintaining it, communicating with the team, and like if anyone needs help, we help each other.
Let me get into a... That was (name) just speaking. Sorry. She would probably laugh at this. But um, you asked... scale one to ten of how I like it. I would say, if I'm being really thankful, I would say a ten. Like it's a very relaxed job. All the people, they're like (name), and just everyone... they're very loving, caring people. And, like there's no toxicity in the workplace, there's nothing like that. Everyone works well together, and I really enjoy that. Like I don't find any issues in my day to day. I don't find a lot to complain about. Sometimes we have these big production errors where like, I’ll be on the computer for like... it’s not a normal day, where I would just be constantly doing work and work and work. Like those days kind of suck, so maybe ten to nine if we're including those, but other than that, like everything's great. I really enjoy the job.
Oh sorry, could you rephrase that question or say that question again?
Okay got it. So, it's a lot of just... I'm a backend software engineer. So, it's just a lot of the other developers, the testers, the managers, just pretty much everyone. I would say I interact least with the top manager, who like, pretty much leads the team like, does a lot of the business stuff. But no, I interact a lot with everyone. Especially in the stand-up if, like I’ll give my status, and then if anyone has input, they will give me input. I interact the most with other developers and testers. So, I’ll code something and then, maybe with other developers, they’ll input in, and then I’ll send it to the testers, and then they’ll test it, they’ll be like: “how do I do this, how do I do that, and how can I get this test case, etc.”  And so yeah. Those are the two types of people I work with the most: testers and developers.
Yeah. No customers.
Yes, fully remote. So,no commute.
Yep, pretty much. I don't think I ever went into the office, really. Except the one time, when I started, I had to get my computer re-imaged because something was wrong.
Um so, I'm friendly with them, they're friendly to me. I find it kind of hard to like... like you know, like, with your friends, you'll go out like get drinks, stuff like that. I find it hard to do that because they’re are a lot older than me. The new hire recently, he's like around my age. Maybe we'll start doing stuff like that? I tend to keep work apart.
--internet issues—
Okay yeah. So, I guess my natural tendency is to keep work very separate from like everything else because work is just so time-consuming. I'm actually kind of like going through a little bit of a change, or like, I'm asking myself like why do I keep it so separate? Like, why not like be friends with like the people you work with? And so it's like, it's a changing thing right now, I guess, but as of today it's been very separate for me.
I have not um... I would guess that it's because work is work. Um I like to keep it kind of professional, I guess? And less distractions and so, if I only talk about business stuff, only do business, then that's like... it’ll make better time, more efficiency, I guess, that kind of thing.
Um so, there are a good group of people that also stay like just very business focused. And then there are people that have been at the company for a long time, and they've grown accustomed to each other and like you could tell like they see each other, like out of work and their conversations are much more fruitful. Or not fruitful but like it's good to hear, like it’s very friendly.
For the most part, I can be myself. Just with like... There is a difference. Like I won't joke really, I won’t like play around, that kind of thing. Like I’ll try to be more professional.
No, not really. The mute button really helps. But it's... Yeah no, it's not like an ongoing effort like: “Okay, be professional, be professional.” Like I could just turn the switch on and off, kind of thing,
So, work from home is very convenient. More time effective. I don't, there's no commute back and forth. I could cook my lunches instead of meal prepping and having the same meal every day. And a lot, like, I'm not work—I'm not working like eight hours a day, so like sometimes like I recently moved in this past week, I was on mute in most of the calls and I was building furniture, that kind of thing and so that's a big pro. And some cons... I would say I’m meeting less people so like compared to college, I’m like hardly meeting anyone right now because I'm just at home eight hours a day. And so, I feel like going to the workplace, I would probably make friends, I would... Yeah it would just be more fun, I guess, in a way, but more work at the same time to get there and yeah.
I would, I would say it's very laid back. Like no one's always on you, like: “Do this do that”, or like “You better get this done.” It's more like: “Here's your task, the sprint ends in two weeks every two weeks, make sure to get it done, if you need help, we're here for you.” Very, very laid back. It's not super formal, but there are formalities. Like we're not always talking about, or like they're not always talking about like their day-to-day life and stuff like that, casual conversation.
Okay, so I would say on our team at least, we have a pretty even split between men and female. I think there is a little bit more men but women... I don't know why I said men and female. Man and woman. There's slightly less woman. There's a lot of Indians. They're very smart. I think they're very smart people. And there there's a good bit of white people too. And I think I'm the only Asian, or the only Korean least. I haven't met any other like Asian, Chinese Korean, Japanese that sort of deal. It seems to be like only me in that aspect. You said age so, I would say, everyone is a lot older than me except the new hire. He just graduated so yeah, just a lot older than me. It ranges, maybe like late twenties to onwards and upwards. We do have an... When I first joined the company, we had an onboarding experience like an early careers thing, and there's a lot of people my age that I got to meet through there and we have like an ongoing group chat and they're all around my age.
um I don't know how many people are at our organization. On a day-to-day basis, I’ll maybe work with around  ten people that's like an average, sometimes less sometimes more.
Sometimes it's group, like right now at least we're in a Zoom call and there's like fifteen of us and we're all just listening in, but most days it’s a lot of just one-on-ones, maybe one-on-twos, stuff like that. Yeah, it varies a lot.
--brief interruption for washer/dryer installation--
I feel like age, kind of. I’m semi fresh out of college, a lot of people see me as like the younger new guy that can learn a lot and wants to learn a lot. So, in that aspect everyone almost tries to be a mentor, which I appreciate. And yeah, I feel like that's a very strong dynamic that’s present for me at least.
Um, I don't feel like that has a role at all. I feel like it's mainly just the age.
Um no. Nothing like that everyone's very kind with each other, very non-toxic workplace.
Um, yeah. I feel like every human is an emotional being, like if you're not then you're blocking something that's natural. But yeah, I would say, emotions, they're normal and I definitely have them.
Definitely more reserved. I'm bit of an introvert so I tend to keep those shelled in.
Depends who you ask. So, I guess like my close guy and girlfriends, they'll say yes definitely. And a lot of just like my other friends know I'm kind of like the quiet guy almost. Like I don't really express myself a lot. Sometimes I do, sometimes I don't. It's weird, it's on and off.
That's a hard question uh. Do they show a lot of emotion? Is that what you’re asking? I guess sometimes, like: “Oh this this stupid thing won’t work,” or like “Oh, I'm stressed.” Kind of.  Yeah, I feel like there's like a healthy amount of emotion sharing throughout the workplace.
Sometimes I’ll get really stressed like when there's a production issue and I’m like working constantly and constantly, yes. After I get off work, I’ll just be fried. I won't do anything else, I’ll just lie on the couch that sort of thing. But most days, no.
Yes, exactly.
Actually, yes. Yes, I do. Like on a one-on-one with like one of my mentors, I’ll be like “God, this is so stressful” or like “This is very difficult” or like “why won't this work?” or if something breaks, I’ll be like: “Oh I'm freaking out. What do we do?”, that sort of thing.
Yeah. They’ll try to make it better.
So, I hope you don't tell (name) anything but there’s...
Okay. It doesn't have to do with her, but there's one specific tester. He doesn't work hard enough, I guess. Or like I’ll give him something to test, and he won't even try to figure some things out by himself, which he could do, he is capable of, i've seen it. So that kind of frustrates me. He's asking me: “How do I do this specifically?” or no, no... Let me rephrase that. I think him asking questions is a good thing, but like he'll sometimes be like “this won’t work”... like “this won’t work’ and then that's it. He has nothing to say after that and he won't like take ownership of it. And yeah, that's what frustrates me the most.
Okay, so my immediate response is anger and frustration. Like “Why? Why are you doing this to me?”, but I never show that. I try to be respectful of everyone, and I won’t like... I think a good phrase in life is “don't act on anger”, so I don't like shout at him, cuss him out, stuff like that. So, I’ll just keep working with them until everything is resolved, and so yeah. I just tolerate it, yeah.
So I have this, like a grip strength thing. It's like a stress relief, it's yeah. (shows me the grip device he squeezes when he is stressed).
Yeah, it keeps my mind kind off of what I'm feeling almost, mellows it out.
Some other types of emotion? Maybe when we do like a big release, and nothing goes wrong. There’s a lot of joy and happiness. We're like in a celebratory mood like: “Oh good job everyone. Good job, good job. You did great.” We’re just handing out compliments, that sort of thing. I really enjoy that.
Oh, I feel like I do a good job of just showing like, if I show... I don't hold back happiness. When it happens, it happens, I don't... I can't recall any time where I'm like restraining it, like I’ll show it, I’ll say nice things to people. I’ll be like “we did it!” or something like that, yeah. I guess, create kind of like the vibe of happiness if that makes sense.
At my company, no. Amongst my friends, very rarely. Maybe, I can only think of like one instance. What was the first part of the question that you asked?
Do I feel affected by that? Um, like kind of, yes. It's almost like our race has been targeted for something that we were never in charge of. It is racism almost, or yeah, it is racism. It's unfair for us. Like I try to be empathetic with like the Black community as well, what they're going through with like the cops and their interactions with that. Based on what the media is showing, I don't know how viable that is, cops are definitely more biased towards white people than black people and that, that angers me. Like, why is the world like this? The world is messed up place, I don't want to be here—that kind of thing. So yes, I am affected by that. I get frustrated and angry at the world.
I would say no, not at all.
I try not to think about it. It’s... work is work, focus on your work. Focus, I think that's a good thing.
Is it difficult to focus on work?
I wouldn't say it's difficult. Because I don't know if this is a crappy thing to say, but it's not directly affecting... When I say it, I mean like Asian Americans, like the racism with that. It's not directly affecting my everyday life, and so it's not like I'm thinking about it every day. When I see it in the news, maybe I’ll think about it for the day but as life continues, it doesn't really come up in my head.
Um, my job life. Yes, because I can't meet people like the way we used to. Everything is from Zoom call, or not Zoom, Teams. The cameras tend to always be off, so I can't really see any faces. And yeah, it's affected in that way. Other than that I wouldn't say anything else, anything that I can think of off top my head right now.
Um... Not that I could think of its... I guess work is just like a very simple thing for me. It just work. I have to get it done to live, pay rent. You know, nothing else other than that. It's just very simple.
Yeah. Kohl’s. I had an internship there.
Okay yeah so definitely harder because I'm being paid a lot less and I still have to keep up with similar bills. And so that created a lot of stress for me. Having to work more hours almost, not more hours I'm like full time now, but realistically I'm not working, eight hours a day. Whereas like, if I worked eight hours at a Public shift, I’ll be working eight hours constantly, so definitely harder in that aspect. I don't have to deal with customers anymore, and don't get me wrong, there were great customers, but there are also very toxic customers that like “wow you're having a really bad day and you're putting it all on me”, that kind of thing. And that was annoying. So, I don't deal with customers anymore um. What else... I would say working in those past jobs was easier on the mental aspect, as in like I have to think less. It's more of just like hands-on doing, I have to do this, do that. Less thought-provoking. I have to think less so it's easier in that aspect yeah.
Yes.
I forgot to mention I worked at Olive Garden for a year. Yeah. It's a different demographic there. There's definitely more racist people there, so like based on like my age, how I look, my race. They would definitely like make these like racial slurs.
Like Ching Chong, like that sort of thing. whoa wait that's what are they yeah it's annoying.
People I worked with. And then the same thing with the customers. Not the same thing, but there were good customers and bad customers. There are two. So the other workplaces, I would say nothing like that. It was just all Olive Garden specifically. Where like I don’t know, my coworkers were a bit toxic. There were good coworkers, but others like, wow.
I just ignored it and I continued working doing my job.
Yes, initially, but it got easier. I got used to it, like “oh that's new”. Yeah.
Athens.
Um... Maybe? Maybe not? I'm not too... I know what Athens like demographic looks like, but I don't really know, like the stats are like... um no, I would say, like the demographic at like UGA at least, I didn't really get much like racism or anything like that.  I'm not too sure if the area had anything to do with it.
Yeah, I hate Olive Garden.
Nothing right now.  Yeah, no. This was fun though.