
Allison S: So, to begin, do you mind just introducing yourself and telling me a little bit about who you are, where you're from, maybe a brief summary of your education and employment background?

Participant 29: Sure, so my name is Participant 29.  Employment background and education background, right?  Good thing this isn't getting shown to anyone, it is just for transcription purposes. So, my name is Participant 29. I received my undergraduate degree from the University of Florida in health education and behavior. I continued on in my master's education at the University of Florida with my Master of Health Administration. My employment background has been a good mix of different areas within hospitals and other companies. One second actually… I'm so sorry I had a knock on my office door and thought that it was something that was very much needed for… Sorry, this was not supposed to happen. So, currently I work at the cell foundation in Jacksonville. I work as an associate director of development, and I've been here for just over a year. Prior to that, I worked as a medical support assistant at the veterans’hospital in Gainesville, that’s our South Florida’s veterans’ health system. So that was for about nine or ten months as I was finishing up my degree. And before that, I was working at UF health street with the University of Florida, which was a community engagement program. I think I mentioned to you in my email that I love helping out with research studies because that was my background during my gap year, so I loved being able to connect people with resources and connect them to research studies and diversify research. So, hopefully, that was helpful.

Allison S: Yeah. I actually also went to the University of Florida for my undergraduate degree. So, I love Gainesville.

Participant 29: Oh wow! When did you graduate?

Allison S: 2010, so it’s been a while.

Participant 29: Yeah? I never would have guessed.

Allison S: Really? So, can you tell me a little bit more about your current role and what you do sort of day-to-day there.

Participant 29: Sure, so I work on midlevel strategy so that is for any Wilson Children's Hospital gifts that's under $25,000. I cultivate relationships with those donors and steward their gifts appropriately. I also work on community fundraising, and I try and go out there and assist different community organizations, whether it's different schools or small groups of people that want to find a way to help and raise money for the children's hospital. What I will say is that with my job and the different aspects of it, no day is completely the same. Some days I'll just be on my computer all day, like doing prospect research or working on donation pages and things like that. Other days I won't even be in my office, I'll be doing donor meetings and meeting with different organizations and kind of just talking about our children's hospital, doing check presentations, things like that. So, every single day is really different which I absolutely love.

Allison S: Can you tell me more about the organization that you're working for also? How big is it? What's the culture like?

Participant 29: Sure, so Baptist health system is comprised of six hospitals throughout the northeast or throughout the Jacksonville region. If you know anything about Jacksonville, there's a lot of different areas of Jacksonville, so we try and touch each part and we are also opening our hospital in Middleburg or in Clay county, which is our neighboring county, and we have one in Nassau county as well. What other questions do you have?

Allison S: What’s the culture like and about how many people work there and whatnot?

Participant 29: Sure, so we have over 13,000 staff members.

Allison S: Across the whole hospital system? 

Participant 29: Correct. The culture, honestly, I think it's different for every single hospital. I think that each community hospital has its own different culture. For example, we have a hospital over at the beach so they're very… everyone really knows each other. It's super calm and like down to the decor and how the hospital was built, it's very like beachy. I am mostly here at our downtown campus, with a focus on the children's hospital of course. I think the community of Jacksonville as whole just loves seeing their impact on the hospitals, so you really do see a lot of our different community organizations and partners just throughout our hospital and it's just a big - I guess, to me it was a cultural shift from the VA hospital because everything's kind of just standardized, everything kind of looks exactly the same. Here at Baptists, everything's really different as far as each hospital.

Allison S: Gotcha, can you tell me more also about the people who work there, like what the demographic like? What’s the composition of the people who work there like?

Participant 29: Sure, so I can give you a more candid view of my office, which is comprised of under twenty people. I am one of four minorities in our office, and we are all women. Two Latino women, one African American woman, and myself.

Allison S: OK, so the four minorities are women, but not everybody in the 20 people? Okay, gotcha. 

Participant 29: So, working in foundation work, its large demographic of women, which I love that as part of our industry, but yes.

Allison S: So, are there men who work within the twenty person office also?

Participant 29: Yes, we have four.

Allison S: Four. Okay, so it is really heavily female dominated. Gotcha, cool. Is that because it's children focused or is that just standard across the hospital?

Participant 29: In nonprofit fundraising as an industry, it is mainly women.

Allison S: Gotcha, that would make sense. Do you interact with the people that you work with pretty frequently and in what capacity would you say you're interacting with your coworkers?

Participant 29: Sure, so I do support a lot of different development directors in my office. So, I do get to see them really really often, probably like every other day. Because of the different hospitals, we have different staff members who work at our hospital, specifically. So, I would say about half of us are here in our main office, and others are kind of just scattered around. But I do have like virtual meetings with them often, we have to like, touch bases.

Allison S: Gotcha. What about with clients? Like how frequently, are you interacting with your clients, and would you say that you're interacting mostly with the same people or with different people all the time?

Participant 29: Do you mean in person or like via email and phone calls?

Allison S: Anything, yeah.

Participant 29: Sure, so I keep a portfolio of about 100. So, that's 100 people that I trying to constantly remain in contact with so that they don't get lost. So, I would say I do that about quarterly. Whether it's an in-person meeting, email correspondence, phone call. That's my hundred people that I talk to or I try to reach out to quarterly.

Allison S: Gotcha, and do you meet with them fairly regularly in person as well, or this mostly email and phone call?

Participant 29: So, it's really hard with all of the different variants of COVID and all of that. People are finding it a lot easier to just talk over the phone and they're very comfortable talking over the phone. So, I would say I have about ten people who like to meet regularly, as far as my clients go.

Allison S: Gotcha. With the people that you're interacting with, both clients and coworkers, what would you describe your relationship as? Do you feel like it's very business professional or do you feel more you know familiar with some of them? Would any of your coworkers be considered your friends?

Participant 29: Sure. So, I mean my job, it's kind of like you have to be professional. But my favorite thing about my job is that I can just be super friendly with people, we can have candid conversations and casual conversations. And then, in my office, because there's different teams in my office, I feel that some teams are a little more reserved while other teams you can literally just come to them with anything, and we'll just chat about it. So, it's definitely good mix.

Allison S: Do you feel like you can just be yourself at work or do you feel like you have to act a certain way?

Participant 29: I mean I am the only team member who has graduated from their program in the last year or two, so I definitely still have to be that...  Of course, like being in an office setting, I want to be professional and be able to hone in on those skills I learned in school. But I mean, I don't feel like I'm not being myself. I feel like I am generally pretty reserved, and like pretty professional, pretty respectful, so.

Allison S: Yeah, no. That makes sense. Do you ever like complain to colleagues or friends and colleagues or listen to them vent or complain to you?

Participant 29: Sure. I mean you have to. 

Allison S:  Yeah? Sure. How do you feel about your job overall? Like what do you like about it, what do you dislike, and if you can rate it on a scale from one to ten, what would you give it?

Participant 29: I would say, like nine and a half. I feel like I'm doing really rewarding work and you obviously like, you get to see what your work is doing, which in a lot of industries and jobs, you can't do that. I think that this job really works well with my personality, because I love talking to people and just like chatting about anything, but also being able to hone in on what people are really passionate about and interested in, and kind of just connecting that to some of my work.

Allison S: Sure. Can you tell me if… Do you do you feel like your race or your gender or your age matter with how you're viewed at work?

Participant 29: I do. I do think that from the transition of being in college, specifically like undergrad, to my master's program and then here at work, I've had to kind of fit more into that role of being very reserved. I think that a lot of Asian Americans feel that way. And sometimes… I mean age specifically, I do have to be a lot more professional because I am working with people who are older, and you need to be really respectful, really professional if you are going to be young and just like jumping into this job because I was up against people who are older than me when getting my job and interviewing for my job. So, I think that age has the most impact out of my gender and race and age, being those characteristics. I think those are my age and like how closely I am removed from school is the biggest factor.

Allison S: Sure, sure. When you say that you feel like you have to be more reserved, what do you mean by that?

Participant 29: Yeah, I just I mean like just not… It's more just like being in a professional setting rather than like being in school, you know. Just to like… of course, I have to dress more professionally than I would have in school and that's just like a given for anyone going into work. But I mean, I think it's part… It's not like the office makes me feel that way, it's more of my upbringing. Like I don't want to be as super outgoing at work, I don't want to be seen as like I'm just having fun at work, if that makes sense. Growing up, it was always like, make sure that you're not like embarrassing yourself.

Allison S: Okay yeah. Have you ever experienced any kind of like racial comments or stereotyping at work?

Participant 29: I always get the: “so where are you from?” from donors specifically, and it's definitely from like a specific demographic. And like I do understand why, I worked at the VA. So, I got a lot of “So where are you from? I knew someone who look just like you.” You know, whatever. So, less here in a regular like nonprofit hospital, but definitely when I was at the VA. That was definitely an impact.

Allison S: Did that affect you at all like? Or was it just something that you kind of just took in stride?

Participant 29: It's something that like you accept. I mean, of course, like I’m Vietnamese. So, it's always a conversation after like: “Yes, I am Vietnamese, I was born here.” Like, a lot of my veterans were Vietnam veterans at the VA so it's just…

Allison S: They probably shared that with you. 

Participant 29: Absolutely. 

Allison: Sure, what about like actual discrimination? Do you feel like that's ever occurred? 

Participant 29: No, and I do feel very lucky in that. I think that every office setting that I've ever worked in, they really do value diversity, equity, and inclusion, and making me feel like, you know this wasn't just like a diversity hire. Like I have a perspective, not only in my race, but like my youth and like my different perspectives that they see as an asset, and they want that. It wasn't just like checking off a box to them.

Allison S: Are there any particular things, like initiatives that they do, that you've seen that make you feel more comfortable with like the diversity aspect of the organization?

Participant 29: Yeah. So, my organization specifically we do a lot of work in the community, which I think is just the biggest way to show that you really are working on your equity and inclusion is going out to the community in, of course, like the healthcare settings and making sure that like we're improving healthcare access. That's one thing, but the other thing is going into schools and showing young kids in specific communities that you can have a job in upper management and executive-level leadership. We have great numbers that I received throughout our health system and are just always wanting to improve on that, and I think part of that is starting with kids. Like you have a kid coming into your children's hospital with a broken arm or whatever and they're seeing people that look like them walking around in white coats, in scrubs, and then they feel like they can be that too. And it's not only the white coat and scrubs, you see people in their suits and they’re executive leaders and they look just like you, and it really does inspire you to be more than you might have thought you could be.

Allison S: Sure, do you ever feel emotional at work?

Participant 29: No, but I think I’m a generally an unemotional person to most people.

Allison S: Gotcha. Are you unemotional like you don't feel it, or unemotional in that you don't share it?

Participant 29: I don't share it, and that's how I've always been growing up. Unless it's like within my household, then I'm very, very – like, I’ll share everything.

Allison S: So, what is that like when you're… I mean, at work have you ever experienced like a strong emotion and then had to kind of keep it in?

Participant 29: Honestly, I'm a really bad person to ask because I don't think I have.

Allison S: No? That's fine. What about (…)

Participant 29: Yeah, like you get happy stories. I think that I'm really blessed in my job because we're encouraged to like show emotions because donors and clients don't want an unemotional person. It's like, excitement, I think is the biggest thing, and just showing like how excited you are about like what we're doing in the hospital, like what the foundation is doing, things like that. I think it's very much encouraged. I think that my job, in connection to the questions that you're asking, it is like a very… How can I say this? It's like an out-there position, like an out-there industry where your normal professionalism things, like they're not really required in my office because we want to celebrate all these things. Like we want to show our donors how excited we are, and be able to share all this information, and be really happy and like be there for them during the sad moments if like their kid is in the hospital or like a loved one is in hospital, and just being there to just be whatever the donor or client needs.

Allison S: What does a lot of the funding that you're raising go towards? Like what what sort of initiatives? 

Participant 29: Yeah so, pretty much every program that you can think of in a hospital, we have a fund for. So, cancer, emergency services, trauma services, critical care like ICU, PICU, and all kinds of things. And also the community work that I mentioned, we really love being able to fundraise for all of these different programs.

Allison S: Gotcha. So you're funding - but when you work for the children's center, does that mean that you're working for different funds within each of these areas specifically for children, or is the children like its own entity?

Participant 29: So, we're in like a little bit of a transition period. The short answer is my focus ia children's hospital, so all those different programs within the children's hospital.

Allison S: Within the children's hospital. Gotcha, do you get to experience… Do you get to like meet children and like experience? 

Participant 29: I do.

Allison: Okay, do you go out and do some of that outreach work as well?

Participant 29: Um yes, as far as like finding local organizations and community organizations to engage and see what they're passionate about at the children’s hospital.

Allison S: Gotcha, I see. So, when you say that you've always been sort of a reserved person in terms of sharing your emotions, can you expand on that a little bit more? Like do you feel like that's part of your personality, or do you feel like that's something that you were raised or socialized into?

--- 20:45

Participant 29: Yeah so, I think I was more raised that way. My parents never really liked any of us getting select specific attention out in public. You know, I love listening crime junkie and like watching crime show so I'm like, honestly, I understand where they're coming from on that. Like you don't want your kids to like garner like unwanted attention, so like for them it was just like no attention, like in general, would be best. So, I'm not like particularly loud, just in general, unless I’m in the comfort of my own home. And I mean, I guess it's more of just like I don't want to be loud at work in general because that wouldn't seem professional.

Allison S: What do you think would happen if you were to suddenly personalities and become more expressive in the workplace?

Participant 29: I think I would just be like a lot of other fundraisers, I guess, because they are very type seven enneagram, very animated, very loud. So then, I mean they… I don't think anyone would really bat an eye at it, they'll just be like: “oh, she's coming out of her shell.”

Allison S: I see. So, other people in your workplace are a little bit more emotional?

Participant 29: Yeah. Like I mentioned, some of our teams are like - our teams are completely different, as far as like operations side of things, rather than like front facing, client-facing. So yeah, some people on different teams are.

Allison S: Do you feel like it's something that's specific to people who are client-facing that you need to be more professional and maybe a little bit more reserved?

Participant 29: No, I think it's the opposite. I think operationally people are a lot more reserved and like just professional, whereas client-facing, it's like you can be kind of fun and like have candid conversations like that, which is different. 

Allison S: Okay interesting. Yeah, can you tell me about a time when you felt particularly excited or happy at work?

Participant 29: Yeah, I mean it was my first like large donation and that was last like November, December. And so, I was really excited. I like ran out to my supervisor at the time, I was just like super excited about it, letting her know about it. But I mean, of course, like I work in mid level and it's not like a super major gift, so it's not like I’m screeching about like whatever gifts that I got, knowing that there's like a lot more like major gifts coming in, like everyday.

Allison S: Sure. What’s been different about your workplace (…)  pandemic.

Participant 29: We're still pretty flexible. Sometimes there'll be people, like multiple people working from home at once, and I think like summer break and vacation has something to do with it too. Sometimes it’s really quiet, sometimes it's really full. It's definitely like a toss up week-by-week, day-by-day.

Allison S: Do you work from home sometimes as well?

Participant 29: I do every once in a while, but I like being in the office. I have everything here, and if there's ever anything that comes up at the hospital like: “oh, we have the last-minute tour.” Like I can do that. So, I like working in office more.

Allison S: Sure, so has anything else changed during the pandemic that you can think of?

Participant 29: In my industry as a whole, of course. We have fewer in-person meetings with donors and just like internally. And I personally like that, there's not as much like handshaking physically going on. But you get a lot of… I mean, we have a lot of people who have been like living their normal lives like since two years now, so.

Allison S: Sure, when you say you kind of like that there's not as much handshaking, what do you mean?

Participant 29: When I’m handshaking I really like having hand sanitizer nearby, like I've always kind of been like that. I don’t like touching strangers. That’s worked for me. 

Allison S: That’s fair. What kind of conversations do you have with your coworkers and with your clients? Like what do you usually talk about?

Participant 29: I talk about my family a lot and I think that that really gets a lot of people's - it piques their interest, because my donors don't look like me. You know, they don't really have a lot of professional relationships with people that look like me and my age, I think that's like the biggest thing. So they love hearing about my education, what I did in school, what I do as far as extracurriculars, and then just hearing how close I am with my family, talking about like my nephews and things like that.

Allison S: Sure. When you say your donors don't look like you, what demographic are they?

Participant 29: They're generally like older white males.

Allison S: Gotcha, yeah. Do you feel like that's changing at all or is that pretty standard across the board?

Participant 29: Yeah so, when I think about like in-person meetings, most of my in-person meetings and lunch meetings and things like that are with that demographic of older white males, just because they're so used to being the people that do that. But fundraising as a whole is seeing like a huge shift in giving, and it's a lot more women and a lot more minorities are donating to different organizations that they're passionate about, and the giving ages are getting younger because a lot more young people are giving and making more money, so we're definitely seeing a shift in that.

Allison S: When you say that you feel like people are really interested in your your backstory because you don't look like them, do you feel like that means that being Asian is like sort of an asset to your job or would you say that it’s just…?

Participant 29: I think so.

Allison S: Yeah, and your age as well?

Participant 29: Yeah. I think more than race, usually.

Allison S: Age more than race, gotcha. In the last couple of years there's been an uptick in news reports about violence against Asian Americans, is that something that you've been aware of and is that something that has affected you at all?

Participant 29: I am absolutely aware of it. It does make me feel a little more careful. I mean, I've grown up just like being careful in general and like being very observant of my surroundings, but definitely - whenever I am doing any errands or anything alone, which generally I don't do a lot of things alone, that's just part of my personality. I like having a friend or having my partner there with me. But I definitely am much more observant about the people around me and kind of just like checking their reactions to, for example, like me walking into a store, anything like that.

Allison S: Sure, yeah. Switching gears back to the workplace, is there anything else about your job or where you work that we haven't discussed that you'd want to talk about?

Participant 29: I don't think so, I mean I do wish that fundraising as a whole… because I am a part of like a professional fundraising organization, I go to these meetings and I am every single time, the only Asian American person there. There's a handful of African Americans, a handful Latinos and Latinas, and I would like to see an increase in Asian American specifically. And I do think that part of that is like the personality type, they think that Asian Americans don't really see that as a lot of their personality of just like going out there and talking to people. But, of course, like my family, my sister and my brother, who are older than me, like they've always been very outgoing. So, I think it's just like… I guess like exposure to the career field and all of that, and just like with time it'll come, like there will be an increase.

Allison S: Do you feel like it's because Asian Americans have a more reserved personality that they don't select to be in your field, or do you feel like it’s the field that doesn't select them because they don't perceive them to be that kind of person?

Participant 29: You know, I… and I've only been in this particular field of healthcare fundraising for a year and before that health administration for just a little bit longer. I think fundraising, it's a bit of both. Health administration, of course, the there's Asian American health leadership associations and things like that. I think that has a lot more Asian American interest and more Asian Americans wanting to be in that field, but I think fundraising specifically, it's a bit of both.

Allison S: Gotcha. Yeah, can you tell me a little bit more about your work at the VA? What was that like?

Participant 29: Yeah, I mean the VA I wore a suit every single day because I was very young and I pique a lot of interest, just like walking through there. So, I mean everyone is always respectful because I am SU so you and I look important and I'm going to the director's office for my internship and for my work. But, of course, like it's not offensive, it's just annoying whenever it's like every single conversation with a veteran who I’m trying to help, like: “Oh, where are you from?” I have the same conversation every time.

Allison S: Sure, yeah. Did they talk about being there like for the military at all?

Participant 29: Oh yeah. 

Allison S: What were those conversations like?

Participant 29: It's always: “Oh I knew a girl who look just like you when I was stationed in Vietnam.” I'm like: “Cool, I get that a lot.”

Allison S: That's fair. I'm from Korea, so I hear that occasionally as well yeah. What else about the VA do you remember? Like what kind of things there did you like and what did you not like? What would you have given that job as well?

Participant 29: Yeah, I mean I loved that job. I wanted to stay within the VA because I love problem solving and just like finding solutions to things, and at the VA there are so many different solutions that are so needed, and I do think that we as a society do not take care of our veterans enough. So, I did love that job. There were the annoying parts. I would say like it's very “ this is how we've always done it” at the VA, which is a lot federal agencies, you know, like it's not a knock on the VA, it's a culture. So, I'd say my job there specifically was like probably a seven, and I think that's only because I worked as an intern and worked in the director's office that I would rank that so highly because I was respected because of my role there. But if I was just - if I wasn't wearing a suit and I was wearing a polo and pants, I wouldn't have had that same amount of respect from staff members and patients.

Allison S: Gotcha. Why did you decide to leave? Is it just because your internship lapsed, then you didn't end up staying or…?

Participant 29: Sure, so my job was not to exceed one year. And within the application cycle, of course with the VA, there’s veterans’ preference for every job and every single fellowship experience, so I was looking outside of the VA.

Allison S: I see, that makes sense. Yeah. Well, those are most of my questions for you, I don't know if there's anything else that you want to talk about that we haven't discussed?

Participant 29: I guess, I would also like to mention that my job before the VA working in that UF health street was another one of those things where it kind of felt like we were not just like checking a box in diversity. But I think that a huge deal and diversity equity inclusion in Asian Americans specifically, in healthcare research, in the VA, in my current role… There's a lot of Asian Americans in middle management I'd say. I very, very, very rarely see them in executive leadership. And I do think it's something that will hopefully come in time, but at the moment, in all of my past experiences there's never been an Asian American in executive leadership.

Allison S: Why do you think that is?

Participant 29: I don't know if this is me just like… I don't know. I'm just like guessing, I think that a lot more Asian American representation that I see in hospitals is in physicians. And I don't know if that's just… we aren't like exposed to healthcare leadership as much, and I do think that will be different especially in this generation, being an Asian, like all of those things, I’m seeing it as like we're trying to make a change. But I mean, it takes a lot of time and a lot of learning and unlearning from a lot of different people. So, that was a very long answer to a “I don't know.”

Allison S: No, yeah. Can you tell me a little bit more about AAHL? I don't know very much about it.

Participant 29: Okay, yeah. Asian American Healthcare Leaders, It is a group that was started by (person), who I know referred me to this study, and it's a lot of like young professional Asian American healthcare leaders and what I have noticed is that in that group, it is a lot of young people under 30 I would say. So, it's everyone kind of just like sharing resources, sharing tips on kind of like diversifying healthcare leadership.

Allison S: Sure, sure. What kinds of tips and things do they share?

Participant 29: So, they do webinars as far as like professionalism, like just sharing information about each hospital that they work at, if they're having like a webinar for a fellowship or internship, things like that. Like, how to land an internship, like an internship questions, job questions, a lot of preparation for entering the next phase of whatever your career might be.

Allison S: Gotcha, yeah that sounds great. Yeah, so that’s it for my questions. I have a few demographic questions that some of them have come up, but I think some of them have not yet. First, you're located in Jacksonville. Can you remind me again where you were born slash grew up?

Participant 29: I was born and grew up in Tampa, Florida.

Allison S: In Tampa, gotcha. What about your parents? Were they born in the United States as well or were they born in Vietnam?

Participant 29: They were born in Vietnam in the states around 20 years old.

Allison S: Gotcha, so you consider yourself a second-generation immigrant or…? 

Participant 29: Yeah, sort of. I don’t really know how to answer that question.

Allison S: That's fair. I think there's some differences in people's definitions of what that means anyway. So, can you tell me your age?

Participant 29: I'm 26

Allison: 26, and your gender pronouns?

Participant 29: She/Her

Allison S: And then you consider your ethnic background to be Vietnamese American or? Yeah, is that what you would say? Gotcha, okay cool. That's it for my demographic questions too. Yeah so, thank you so much for chatting with me. It was really interesting to hear more about your work and your role and the different things that you've experienced there, so thank you so much. Also, do you have Venmo?

Participant 29: I do.

Allison S: Let me… hang on, let me stop this recording.
