
Participant 24: Okay.

Interviewer: Okay so to get us started, do you mind just introducing yourself and telling me a little bit about who you are and your education and your employment background.

Participant 24: Sure, so interesting. So well, my name is [Participant 24] obviously. I am Thai native, you know, I was born in Bangkok, Thailand back in 1986, I’m revealing my age, so I’m 54 years old now. So I got my bachelor's degree from Siam University in Bangkok Thailand. My major is education technology. So after I graduated I worked for a hotel industry at that time it was called Royal Garden Bangkok, but eventually was taken over by Marriott in Bangkok. So I worked for two years after I graduated from my bachelor and in the sales and marketing department. I loved it. I really enjoyed that two years in the hotel business and then, but after that you know my wife and my dad think that you know—I wanted to be like my dad, he was a banker. So we came over here in August 1992; this August next month going to be 30 years. To pursue our MBA in finance and initially the plan was going to be here for two years, get MBA, and go home yeah. And then, so we went to Cleveland. I got my MBA in finance from Cleveland State University. And after that, my wife, she wanted to get a doctorate. So we were looking, and you know, eventually we came down to Florida, to NSU, obviously, so we both got finance DBA: doctoral business administration and finance on NSU. And while I was, I actually finished my course work in about 1999. And why we're doing dissertation, so I pick up a student job, part time job at NSU and then call Einstein library, which is a really small library at NSU back then. So I was a student assistant in system department, technology department for a couple years. And then be NSU when into a contract with Broward county, then in 2001—actually the contract was started in 1999 to build a one of a kind library, called Alvin Shermin Library. So we opened in 2001, so at the time they were looking for somebody to help with technologies, so you know, I’m interested. So I applied for the job, and I got it. Worked at Alvin Shermin Library while I was doing my dissertation. And I just fell in love with what I do in technologies. And it's been 21 years and I make my responsibility and position progress along the way, when I started off as a network administrator and then I got promoted to be system administrators and then I became director of library computing services. And then 2017, I became executive director of library systems. And just this past April I got —I shouldn’t say promotion because I have to apply for the job, we went through the process. So now and be associate dean librarian for collection and library information for the Alvin Shermin Library. I forgot to mention, in order to do that I had to get another master degree in library, so I got my MLS in library science on USF. I recall what year is 2019 I believe. So that's my background, so I went from you know business background and became a librarian. 

Interviewer: Yeah. That’s amazing, I love that.

Participant 24: yeah but I think my business background really help me also help running library.

Interviewer: Sure, I bet yeah. I actually work at a library right now myself. It’s very interesting to see what everyone does. Yeah. Um, can you tell me a little bit more about your day to day job now in your current role.

Participant 24: In my current role—which is I’ve been in this current role for three months—the day to day, right now, because we are in the process of my job, it's a new role, a leadership role so basically, I report to president of informations—library information technologies. So I’m technically associate… honorary—. Youre in the library, so you know the lingo, library lingo I hope.

Interviewer: A little bit.

Participant 24: It’s equivalent to associate dean of a library or associate vice president. So this is part of our reorganization process where, you know, we want to do is to help supply in NSU vision and mission. And NSU vision is to me preeminent research university. So in order to do that we need to have, you know, provide more support to our students and faculty as far as research. So right now, like I said, I just assumed this position for three months but it's been a lot of work. So the day to day work operation, right now, it may not be like this next year, I hope, because right now it's a lot of meeting. A lot of bad fightings for the departments to see what is needed. You know, I’ve seen a mo and and I know so this position. We pretty much met with everybody in the library. You know to find some good information to problems, to any recommendations. So that is what I'm doing right now on a day to day. Other than my job duty, my job duty I’m responsible for collection development for the library. I also responsible for system, which is technology. I also oversee the archive and also oversee the document delivery department. So that's my role. I hope that answers your question.

Interviewer: yeah no, it does so, it sounds like if you're having meetings all the time, that you interact with people a lot in your job, is that correct? 

Participant 24: Correct 

Interviewer: and are you mostly interacting with other people working at the library, or do you also interact with, you know students, or any anyone who would be a client?

Participant 24: Well, I forgot to mention that beside that I’m also an adjunct faculty.

Interviewer: Oh okay.

Participant 24: I used to teach more finance for the Business School; I don't teach it lately because I’m so busy and I have different focus. But I taught for Business School some 2013 to about 2020 in finance. So I taught, you know, personal finance, corporate finance, financial management for both undergrad and MBA students. 

Interviewer: Got it.

Participant 24: And I loved it. I love to interact with students. And you know, so you connecting… you have a potentially Asian but I’m also Asian. When I deal with… you know I’ve been there, done that, so I was an international student and they love to them as I do, I shouldn't be distributed, but I like to also help international students, because you know they’re far away from home, that's very tough already. So with that said, I also teach they call it, UNAV 1000, which is the experiential learning courses. 

Interviewer: mm, yeah.

Participant 24: Not every college have it, but then as you pass one, which is great. It has been five years now, this is part of you know helping freshman to be, no you call it. This is a subcourse system that NSU has to help freshman when they start you know, the new semesters at NSU, from high school to college. So they take your experience and have the support that they need so with the hope for student retention, as well, and it's been really successful. So I’ve been teaching that course for four years, and this year is the first time that I saw the student that I taught from day one, and they just graduated, so. 

Interviewer: oh that’s awesome.

Participant 24: So that that is the warming part. So again I work, mostly my responsibility, mostly the back-end. Deal with back-end supply system. But, for me to interact with students, when I teach.

Interviewer: gotcha um. So how do you feel about your job at the library, if you, you said you love teaching, but at the library, if you could rate your job, from 1 to 10, what would you give it?

Participant 24: Oh I would give it a 10. I love what I do and that's why it's funny like 30 years ago, if you would’ve asked me, ‘Would you want to walk into library?’ What? [laugh] Right I pictured myself and I came here, picture myself to be you know working in the banking industry just like my dad, he was a very successful banker. But then, now that I look back 30 years later, now I work in the library. With a lot of books, and not that many books and journals anymore, it's all really mostly electronic now. 

Interviewer: right 

Participant 24: but yeah I mean it's—I love what I do and that's why I’m still continuing to be here. And that’s why I applied for this position, actually, because I saw this library built from day one. When I first started, it wasn't built. So I saw this library grow and to be able to also support not just an issue, but also to Broward County Community, that's that's amazing.

Interviewer: Yeah, no that's awesome. Can you tell me a little more about the culture and like overall vibe or atmosphere of where you work. Would you call it like you know fun, you know laid back, casual friendly, formal, professional.

Participant 24: Well that's an interesting yeah—because I always said you know, ‘We are library, it’s not the end of the world.’ Right? I have to say, obviously, it's not like a corporate culture setting. I mean even though I work in Thailand 30 years ago in the hotel business, but I still remember that it's more—what do you call it—serious. It's a corporate setting. Right?

Interviewer: Mmm.

Participant 24: So you have target, you have goals—at a library, you have goals too, but it's a different kind of, I think, perspective. So a lot of time you don't deal with deadlines, right. I mean, that’s to some degree out the door. You have to do stats, we have deadlines. But we don't have—you know, do you know how to hit the target as far as like yourself, you have to hit the target. So the culture is more relaxes, I would say, which is a good thing, but in the meantime, you also have some people that maybe too laid off. Just take it not so, so serious thing. So that's when you have to like, ‘Hey.’ So but overall yeah the culture is great. It’s much more friendly than the corporate world.

Interviewer: How would you describe your relationship with your colleagues? Do you consider them to be your friends as well, and if you do, or even if you don't, what kinds of conversations you have with them?

Participant 24: I think that that is part of, I think, maybe I’m not sure it's an Asian culture [laugh]. You know, coming from me, me personally, I like to interact with people and I like to talk to people. So I don't know everybody, talk to everybody. I like to talk to people, so I have a few good friends that I met at the library and at NSU, not just the library. So, your dad is one of them. So, I like to build relationship, and I think this is part of when I work in the hotel business. I had a general manager—he’s an American actually—and he taught me a really good lesson. Even though you work in the sales and marketing and really try to sell people. Regardless of how good your product is, if they don’t like it, they’re not going to come back to you. And then he said, but if you have not so great product, but if they like you, they may buy it from you or will come to see you. And that's so true. So I use that always in any aspect, you build long term relationship and that’s… And just to answer your question, yeah I have a lot of good friends at work. 

Interviewer: And do you feel like you can talk to them about anything, or do you feel like there are certain lines you can't cross because it's a business setting or a job setting?

Participant 24: Yes, you know. Just like area employment, you know you get something that you can talk, something you can't. But I mean… would say couple people that I trust, at the highest level of trust too. When you talk to somebody and once they trust you and you trust them, you start talking and also golf with them, that's another my passion, I love golf. And so I have good friends to golf. Like I miss work and I miss you and I was not gonna work, so yeah I mean for a couple of stop, or even if you're comfortable talking to them and they're doing the same so.

Interviewer: Do you ever complain or vent to your colleagues or listen to them vent or complain to you?

Participant 24: What do you mean like I complain and they complain about work?

Interviewer: About anything, yeah about work, maybe.

Participant 24: Sometimes. You know. But again, in that, sense, you’re gonna have to really be careful. 

Interviewer: yeah. 

Participant 24: So you don't try to create negativities in your organization. So, especially when, you know, I know people talk and people like to gossip. I don’t know, my assumption is wrong, but I know people talk. But, especially when you in a leadership role, you—how am I saying—I think you have to… When you say something you have to think twice, because we don't want to create negativities or causing issues among colleagues. We didn't have this issue. 

Interviewer: Right. Do you do you feel like you can just be yourself at work or do you find that you have to put on some sort of act?

Participant 24: I think I’m a born natural. I don’t like to fake. And people can say… I think, like I said 21 years in this organization from network specialist to now present, I’m second in command. I still have the same. I don't treat people, you know, I think it’s really important within organization, I always use the comparison, you know you drive a car, every piece in the car is important. Right? Every piece of the engine because if we missed one ball, is going to cause the damage to your car. So, it doesn't matter if you uh, you know, head of the library. You know everybody's important. So I treat everybody equally and I try to be fair. I mean with that said they[SE1]. And I think if you talk to them genuinely you could earn respect that way, you earn trust and respect that way. You don't want people to see ‘Oh, outside work is one thing, and you know, in in the libraries that differently.’ Some people do that, I think, but me, if you meet me at Costco I'll do the same, just like when I’m at the library. [laugh].

Interviewer: What are the people that you work with like? Um, can you tell me a little more about the demographics of your colleagues? Like what percentage of them are male/female, what percentage of them maybe different racial backgrounds, ages.

Participant 24: Interesting now you probably… I’m curious by now about your library, to which library do you work at, sorry?

Interviewer: I work at Emory University’s Woodruff Library.

Participant 24: Emory university library.

Interviewer: I work in the Rose which is it's like a rare books manuscripts and archives library.

Participant 24: Okay, so. The library setting from what I see. More female than male obviously. I would have to say, try to guesstimate probably 80% female 20% male. So it's kind of rare to see male librarian. The uh demographic as far as race is… Florida is is unique, is you know multicultural state so. We have a lot of—well, a few Asians. A few Hispanic—Spanish we name it, so it’s mixed. Does that answer your question?

Interviewer: yeah no it does.

Participant 24: You can find the youngest well. Yeah I mean, I guess, we just have somebody in the previous vice president she was 67 when she retired. So we have younger generation to older, so yeah.

Interviewer: yeah sure. So it seems like it's pretty diverse

Participant 24: its very diverse.

Interviewer: in terms of race and age, at least. Do you feel like your race ever matters or impacts how you're viewed at work?

Participant 24: Hmm, good question. I don’t. Because again maybe because of the diverse environment here. I don’t know about others although when I look back when I was a teen, although I didn't work, so I didn't have that experience. I don’t think that race would make any impact on me, any difference. Especially, and I have to say, especially in higher education setting. I have to write data, I have to be mature, you know, to do some research on that, but I think the higher levels of education to people are... you know less and... let's face it like have less impact on your setup or culture.

Interviewer: gotcha um What about like your international student status, when you first came and were studying. Did you feel like that was difficult at all, or maybe had a different experience than other students?

Participant 24: Well, you mean, cuz what study or working?

Interviewer: Well, as both, I guess.

Participant 24: oh yeah, obviously the first barriers language. Right? Even though I've been here 30 years I still do not speak perfect English because, you know still have accent. But that's the barrier there. The culture is, you know, I came from Thailand, we tend to a little shy, you know, you don't know... We’re soft spoken, but it does it along the way, now that I'm not afraid to talk. And I can talk in so that's the intelligence and Americans tend to be more open in their talk and express their ideas. Asians coming from Asian countries tend to be a little, you know, conservative (?) 

Interviewer: Sure. Have you ever experienced any kind of stereotyping, or like racial comments?

Participant: Good question. No, not—not at the library.

Interviewer: that's good.

Participant 24: yeah, which is good.

Interviewer: What about in any of your previous roles?

Participant 24: I think that I’m fortunate enough to, yeah, I never.... had uh personal discriminations. 

Interviewer: that’s good. 

Participant 24: I heard from somebody but I never experienced myself.

Interviewer: Ahh, I see from like colleagues and whatnot?

Participant 24: yeah

Interviewer: Um In this study I'm especially interested in how people feel and express their emotions at work? Are you an emotional person and do you consider yourself someone who shares what they're feeling or tends to be really private about it?

Participant 24: depends, like I said, when... have a couple people that I trust. You know, I'm friends with them even though we’re coworkers, but I’m friends with them almost 20 years. So I tend to keep it a little private depend on, you know, you don't share everything. And again, like I said, especially something that negative, but when it's time that you really need somebody to come to. You know, we see the same issues... oh you know, I know that I can trust them. Sometime, I want to get some opinions, I’ll share those with them, but I'm not get emotional that that easy, as you can see. I try to think positive because I think that's the best, you know I’m not going to bring negative, so.

Interviewer: Sure, sure. So, can you think of any times when you felt particularly strong emotions at work?

Participant 24: maybe a couple times, I’m trying to think—you need to be specific, or?

Interviewer: Any kind of emotion works, it could be you we're really worried or nervous, you could be really excited, really upset, really angry...

Participant 24: Yeah a few times. 20 years, I think have, you know. You want an example?

Interviewer: Yeah, yeah. Please.

Participant 24: Okay, so. Hope my next door doesn't hear me. So, so when I was director of library computing services, the difficulty that we have always angry. The difficulty of technologies, you need money right, you need to have budget. Unfortunately, the way our library, setting the budget for technologies is really strange. So the way it works is every year, we have to, you know, we call it the software meeting, and we were soliciting stuff from each department. What do they want? More technologies, more hardware, software—and that's sometime in fall. We meet, and then we have to come up with a list to go to budget defense and hopefully you get approved in January, and you can’t spend it until July first. So I ran into this difficulty for many years and I got really frustrated because when you plan technologies, you want to execute it soon. You can't just ask for the money and wait to execute it months later, and by the time most technology would be obsolete. So that was my you know concern and I want to improve the process, so at one meeting I talked to my VP then, she was cool by the way, but then she didn't understand my point. So I was kind of frustrated and in the business, this is not the way we should—I said, have certain amount of budget set and then, when it comes time, when people request for technology, then we can permit it. And she said “Ahh don’t ask me about it [gibberish]!” Once I was really upset because I have to admit that was one of the most probably [makes uncomfortable face]. I was almost quit. Because you know it just frustrates and I wanted to make it better, we want to make improvement, but your boss couldn't see... that. I hope that....

Interviewer: yeah sure, so when you felt frustrated, did you express that or did it show that you were frustrated or did you try to keep that reserved?

Participant 24: Obviously you can’t blow up in front of your boss, you can’t just say “I quit!” So I was a little upset and my colleague, Dan, you know he's still my colleague now. We kind of get each other and so okay, so I kind of wink. He didn’t know that I was that upset but, you know, obviously first person is I picked up the phone and called my wife. And said “Okay, you know, this is this is this where I went, and this is what I ran into. But then the next day, I talked to my other boss, because this is the VP that I talked to, so we met for last minute. And I said, you know, with how that went I am not happy, this is not the way it should be. But that was it. We talked to her again and she tried to explain, just we do it this way, and I don't even understand why it couldn’t be that way.

Interviewer: Sure, sure. Um have you ever felt like emotionally exhausted or experienced burnout?

Participant 24: Hmm... probably. Mhmm. I feel that, when I apply for this job. Okay, so mainly I was lucky over the years been here in this country 30 years, been to four different positions. This is the, the only position that I had to really work to get it. All other position, um I work hard, all this, but I got promoted or bundling classification. I got a few job offers, you know, didn’t really pursue any of them to be honest with you. Maybe I was looking at one of them, but this one, in particular, is with very important so there was a process of applying for it. You know, to get the job, go to the interview, and go with presentation so that was really exhausting. 

Interviewer: yeah

Participant 24: You know, not knowing that you get it or not. Although you think you might get it, but to go through that process, and I really appreciate, you know, people searching for job, looking for job. I was on a search committee many times. Did not realize how, you know, emotionally drained and exhausting, you know, these people have to go through so I really appreciate that.

Interviewer: Sure. What was the hardest part of applying for this new position?

Participant 24: I think the hardest part is because, to be honest, people thought it was a done deal. Because I've been here long enough and I have all my publications. But I do have to go through that process and answer and... If I would have applied for a job somewhere else. and go through that same process, and not being under the same pressure. Because the pressures of, again, many people thought it’s automatic, when it's not. The whole process that you have to go through it’s a lot of preparation.

Interviewer: Did you feel afraid or nervous at all that you wouldn't get the position and that other people would be surprised?

Participant 24: Yeah, yeah definitely, like I said it’s not automatic and I was told it's not. Which is great because that that made you give an extra effort. So just like when they say, and I appreciate my boss, and I talked with him, afterward and he said, “I appreciate you having me done this, go through this. You know, I appreciate the honesty because there were other candidates. You know, not just me so some for me to know that and have to go the extra mile. And I did that, guess that's kind of proof and demonstrated that you qualify for this position. It was a long two months and it's not a short period—it‘s a two month process. [laugh] It was rough.

Interviewer: How did you cope with the stress, while you were doing that. 

Participant 24: me? 

Interviewer: yeah

Participant 24: YouTube. I love watching YouTube because you know that's how I learn a lot of thing, through YouTube and beside, you know, if you want something quick, go to YouTube. Well, I believe it or not, I do not stress that easy. Because uh I just think that not everything is the end of the world, you always can pick out a way to solve the problem. People will have good days and bad days. But when I'm stressed, I just again, listen to the music or watch something on YouTube just search for something for fun. And just or go to Facebook and connect with your friends and the lads, just kinda.... don‘t think much. Because it useless, saving does not thinking anything they're thinking is going to get worse.

Interviewer: Sure. What's been different for you at work, since the pandemic? Has covid created any new dynamic very different difficult situation that you have noticed continue to be different?

Participant 24: Definitely, and it’s so unfortunate to be honest. Because I don't like—COVID really changed the world. Made impact. And hopefully it does not change—okay, first thing first, good and bad. So economics 101 you know, economy is driven by productivity right, so people don't work or people don't consume. You don't produce then, you know, gonna drag the economy. Work from home is great, to a certain degree because you know this, especially gas right now, you have the comfort of working from home, but in the meantime people consume less. When you consume less you don’t have productivity driving the economy. People don't go to eat, people don’t buy clothes, so that impacts the economy. And then now it's also impact the job as far as now, people are looking for a job that offer, work from home as an option. Good for a company to try to save money, so they don't have to you know have office. But in the meantime is good for certain type of job—but restaurant, right. Restaurants, I have a few friend that own restaurant and It’s tougher to find people to work. Even library, you know we need people know to be in the library to help student, to help with creations. And even at the university. You know, high chair mean can get away with certain work from home type because of you know the nature of the work. But not every job can do that, can entertain that. And that may also take away the human—the apps—and I like to talk to people. Like Zoom is great, so you can be anywhere and connect and work. But the human interactions, it's gone, in a way. 

Interviewer: Mm, yeah 

Participant 24: Even like Zoom meetings and people like to turn off the video in the head, because you can see the expression, you really can see, like whether they like or not or they don't like, or are they even paying attention. So that really made a lot of impact in almost every industry. And that's what we're running into this issue right now so I don't know. And I don't—I hope we get through it.

Interviewer: yeah um. What about in the last couple of years there's been an increase in news reports of violence against ease and American. Is that something that you're aware of, or that you follow it at all, and has it impacted you?

Participant 24: Absolutely. And it’s a few thing that contributes to that. Level of education is one thing; you know, I hate to say that I don't want to think that ‘Oh well, you've got an upper degree, a master degree,’ and I think education is important. Because I think if people are well educated, they consume the news differently, you know a lot of fake news, as you can see. Certain leadership hasn't been great around our countries and also other countries. That contribute to them as well, so. And people backgrounds some you... You know but, as you can see you, you and your dad probably surrounded with well-educated people. You not experience that as much, but you believe in certain areas of concern environments you may experience it more. And I'm lucky to live in Florida, you know, diverse culture. Although the only thing that I run into is—on the street, believe it or not—first first few weeks when we moved down from Cleveland, Ohio. I was driving somebody cut in front of me badly and didn‘t know how—have you lived in Florida before? 

Interviewer: yup.

Participant 24: Okay, you know how the way they drive now here. 

Interviewer: yeah 

Participant 24: Somebody cut in front of me, almost hit me, and then I honked the horn. The lady rolled the window down, said ‘Go back to China!’ 

Interviewer; oh.

Participant 24: Yup. I told my wife, one of the first thing, ‘I‘m not sure how long I can live down here.’ But the next thing you know it's been 20 years. So that actually was the only/first encounter I had. Not even at work, though, on the street. 

Interviewer: Right.

Participant 24: And that is to me like, wow. But all I can say is. If they were to prove that that person was a little well educated, maybe that’s... so then I just let that go. 

Interviewer: Sure, sure. Have you ever run into any kind of problems with like students during teaching and stuff like that?

Participant 24: No, really only complain they have—and that was during COVID, because I have to teach online and have to wear a mask—they complain about my accent a little bit. But they didn’t make any particular comment about, you know, that. That’s the only complaint.

Interviewer: What have they said about it?

Participant 24: Actually, it‘s funny. You know what Rate My Professor is?

Interviewer: yeah Rate My Professor.

Participant 24: I think I have all great rates except for this one person. She complained, you can look me up and—I shouldn‘t say she, I don’t even know who that person is but I sort of assume it's a she because the other were two guys, I guess, I shouldn‘t assume. But yeah that person said ‘Heavy accent,‘ and blah blah blah. But that's the only complaint, to be honest with you, I have been teaching for almost 10 years. Never really had any issues. And most student were really nice, by the way I treat them too, I always tell them right off the bat. I'm her to give you the education, I’m not here to give you a hard time. I'm your instructor, if there’s anything that you need help, just come to see me and I will help you. 

Interviewer: Sure.

Participant 24: I made it clear right off the bat.

Interviewer: that's good. They probably appreciate that. Um is there anything else about your workplace that we haven't discussed that you want to talk about?

Participant 24: As far as? 

Interviewer: Anything. Anything on your mind that you want to share about that hasn't come up.

Participant 24: This uh has to be related to...

Interviewer: It can be anything.

Participant 24: Well, I. Eh there's a couple of things, I guess. This is one thing that I, not just found out recently, but I can confirm my findings recently because I heard more. I did not experience that because I guess because talking in education. Unfortunately I think much is our library only but uh. People who are librarian, with the library degree, I learned from others that non librarian, that they think that those people feel more superior than others. So if you don't have a library degree, you kind of not belong, like a second class citizen. Which is so unfortunate. And I need to share that because, as a leader, because on the outside I didn't say I didn't have a librarian degree up until two years ago. And I actually heard about it, I mean people experience it myself, because maybe I have MD and I have doctorate. So they probably respect me a little more, but for me to hear that from other people. This is unacceptable. 

Interviewer: Mm, sure. These are colleagues or people that work at the library just in general or? 

Participant 24: 

Intreviewer: yeah. interesting. What do you think the solution to that is.

Participant 24: The solution is simple. I made a statement at every meeting[SE2] that was about I will not tolerate this kind of treatment. And use the comparison about the car and say it doesn't matter, I think anybody's equally important. You know the conversation will not be driving true, or excel. You know, everybody in the organization, so no one is more important than the others. So everyone is equally important, regardless of you know your skills or knowledge. So we have to treat everybody equally. Not like you know you have a degree and that that's the best.

Interviewer: Sure, yeah well, I guess, I imagine that people are very grateful to you for having that talk. Some people anyway. Great. And you said a couple of things. Was there something else that you wanted to talk about?

Participant 24: I don't think it's more of—well, don’t disclose this information, I might be in trouble, as far as... you can quote me on the problem but I guess don’t mention NSU. Is you know our data.

Interviewer: it's all anonymous so anything that I thought put would be under a different name and...

Participant 24: Then I can talk a little more. I think the problem with leadership that in a staff that I see now them is certain leaders. I guess, this is the culture, unless you can share it with your dad, he might run into this where... I don't like the fact that they... You know people like to show, ‘I did this’ to the President. Okay. But on the meantime, some of the thing that you want to do. You have to make sure that, first of all, it impact the student. Second of all is reasonable. Not really impact a lot of people negative. But sometime I seen some people going above and beyond meaning. They say, ‘I don't care what what's going to happen, what negative impact others as long as I can show it to the President,’ I think this, you know.

Interviewer: Mm, they're just trying to show up and they're not necessarily thinking about the consequences.

Participant 24: Or is it reasonable to use this much resources to achieve this? 

Interviewer: yeah.

Participant 24: And another thing is you've seen news publishing before, where, ss a leader, we have to give credit to the staff. You have to let people wanting and bit of recognization. You as a leader, you provide mission and goals, strategy goals and objective to the staff. But I didn't do anything, they are the one that help me with skills. You can’t do it yourself. You know, just like what Steve Jobs and they're great leader, with a good inventors and innovators. But in the meantime, if they don’t have those people working for them, they will not be able to come up with products great product like iPhone or Tesla. So at the end of the day, you have to give credit to people

Interviewer: Sure.

Participant 24: So that is what I see?

Interviewer: Do you think you have a different perspective ever because you are an Asian American in leadership? Is that ever something that you think matters or makes a difference for you?

Participant 24: that's a good question and that reminds me of one thing. I think, maybe, maybe that's coming from Asian because you pay people respect more like more in Asian cultures and you also pay respect to seniority. Which I don't think this country is, to a certain degree. So that may be, yeah, maybe our backgrounds and cultures that that can help us in being us. Be more respectful to others and yeah.

Interviewer: Do you think that's a barrier or a challenge, is that ever a liability in some way?

Participant 24: Liability, in terms of what?

Interviewer: Like a disadvantage, do you ever feel disadvantaged in that respect?

Participant 24: Okay, going back to going back to when I interview for this position. There was one comment after I got the job that the only drawback that they might not have picked me is because they think I'm too nice, and too soft. And I say, ‘Okay, let me put this into perspective,’ again, I think I earned trust to my colleagues or leaders. To what, you know I'm proud to be what I am, I try to be transparent. I don't think. I don't think you have to be—sorry my language—an a-hole to run an organization. You have seen in so many companies, I mean like I said, as well as they when they make a comment about Steve Jobs he's not a great leader. You can see his documentary people hate him.

Interviewer: Mm.

Participant 24: You know, but to other success for the message. Be considerate to your staff, but to a certain degree, not have them take advantage now you're talking about taking advantage. Okay you don't see me when I'm firm to people. When I say 'Okay, I want accountability. You are accountable.’ You ask them when they don’t do the job, and that’s when you follow up with them. And I think it worked for me the last so many years this worked out great for me, so why change, why I have to be a bad guy. I could try to cut through to people. Because this is my style no so what work, I'm not going to fix them. Right.

Interviewer: that's good I think being nice is good so.

Participant 24: be reasonable. Yeah but then actually, now that I’m here, treatments has stopped, some people have some agenda a little bit not much, so I made it clear. I'm beating the way I am I don't want to be the bad guy, but it it get to the point that I need to be. I don't like agenda, I like transparency. It doesn't have to be, I may have to make some tough decision.

Interviewer: Great, well thank you so much for answering all these questions, I know we're we're basically out of time, again I don't want to take up too much of your. Time.

Participant 24: I have time for you but I just hope this is helpful and you get when you were looking for.

Interviewer: Yeah, no it's always helpful and I'm looking for basically anything so I try not to have too many presupposition before I come in, you know I want to just hear what you have to say about your experiences and whatnot.

Participant 24: Like I said, I think I'm fortunate. I work, you know, 20 years working in this country with one organization with different responsibilities. I would’ve probably given you more perspective I worked at two or three different companies. Probably definitely different company, probably just in Georgia different setting. 

Interviewer: Right 

Participant 24: And I've never worked in corporate here. But then when I was in Thailand, I had an American boss, he was nice to me. I told you about his—I actually had two American boss, one was being the sales and marketing and one was general managers. And now that you mention when I resigned and come to work at age 4 million, you think after you earn your MBA you’re better off than continue to work with us. [laugh] So that's interesting, but yeah...

Interviewer: yeah very cool yeah yeah yeah um do you have Venmo or PayPal or, though. 

Participant 24: why?

Interviewer: Oh, I want to compensate you.

Participant 24: Oh, no, no no.

Interviewer: No? Are you sure?

Participant 24: I do this to help the dad and you’re a very way nice lady.

Interviewer: What about a Starbuck's gift card or something?

Participant 24: Do you like treat yourself, or take a nap.

Interviewer: that's very sweet. Really.

Participant 24: I don't expect anything in return, I just do this. Is your dad he's a very nice guy and one of my great colleagues. Wishing well and it seems to me how long has he been retired?

Interviewer: um. I guess it was two years, five years they.

Participant 24: Do like longer than that. So so yeah I mean when you know you know. Our conversation will help you to send me creating closely, you can. You know, get what you're looking for in your research.

Interviewer: yeah I know it's very helpful, so thank you and feel free to reach out to me if you have more.

Participant 24: Questions and. You want to us.

Interviewer: sore.

Participant 24: I will do that my email now.

Interviewer: Right yeah yes, yes. cool Thank you so much, it was really nice to meet.

Participant 24: You nice to meet you and good luck. Say hi to Dr Dan for me.

Interviewer: I will do that for sure. Okay. bye bye.
[SE1]19:00, can’t understand
47:30, Can’t quite catch this[SE2]




