Interview Transcript 
Participant 21
 
(Starts over after first minute—lost connection briefly) 
 
Participant: I'm a Filipino. I immigrated here from the Philippines, when I was 16, so that was a very fun transition coming from that background and entering like this high school America—different from what I grew up through. I went to Georgia State for my undergrad. I studied neuroscience, and I graduated two years ago and I started working here. No, wait actually started working as a biomedical technician for a plasma company, and then I transitioned to working as a clinical research coordinator here at Emory, and I'm with the infectious disease department so we're doing a lot of covid research right now. 
 
Interviewer: Gotcha and how long have you been doing that again. 
 
Participant: About a year and a half. 
 
Interviewer: And you worked at the plasma company… 
 
Participant: the plasma company was about half a year and then Emory is about a year. 
 
Interviewer: Gotcha, gotcha. 
 
Participant: um since graduating. 
 
Interviewer: Yeah so can you tell me more about the role that you have right now and what your everyday job looks like? 
 
Participant: So basically our study is that we're just trying to see how long the covid vaccine protection can last for, I think we're just establishing a time now for that one. So for the day to day for the substudy, and that is that we just approach patients and subjects and just enroll them, see if they want to participate in the study. And we do a survey and do a sample collection, such as the nasal swab and of course they are compensated, like most studies here at Emory right, as you are probably aware. And yeah and then we go back to the office we do the paperwork and most of the time we're done by the afternoon, so a lot of is just trying to find work like helping out the nurses at the clinic downstairs we're doing beta like medical distractions whatnot. 
 
Interviewer: So you're working with people a lot that, right?
 
Participant: Yeah yeah a lot of a. 
 
Interviewer: Do you work with your colleagues as well do you have like a team or. 
 
Participant: Yeah I do, I have a little team of a few six, I would say yeah yeah. 
 
Interviewer: And what are your teammates like. 
 
Participant: Ah. I never been there since we're all like at our age like 24-25. instead of this sort of professional environments, more like a bunch of friends working together. So there's no real disconnect in communication. I feel like that comes with age and I don't want to sound like that, but it's really hard it's harder for me to talk to people that are older, or more established like doctors or, these people that are in sort of my area of expertise. I don't know. 
 
Interviewer: I know that makes perfect sense. um So do you feel like you can be yourself at work or do you sometimes find that you have to act, a certain way. 
 
Participant: So there was there's sometimes there's like a duality, where I can act, who I am with my colleagues, but with bosses and managers or people above me, I have to sort of act differently, I think, is the same for everybody, though, but not one to speak for everybody. But it depends on your study. 
 
Interviewer: what about with participants. 
 
Participant: With subjects I’m so much more comfortable, because it's not like, the worst thing they could say, say “no” they don't want to participate, and that's fine. So I'm much more comfortable talking to strangers, rather than people that I work with sometimes. So yeah yeah. 
 
Interviewer: What are your bosses like, or what are the managers like. 
 
Participant: They’re good. I don't see any problems of them actually. They help out what sometimes there's a disconnect, though, because I know they're so busy doing other things, so there's a lot more independence for us. So there's a lot more I guess there's a lot more trust instilled in us to actually do our job and get our job done without having our shoulders being looked over. 
 
Interviewer: Sure sure, so they give you quite a bit of leeway in terms of what you're supposed to be doing. Well, are they much older than you or are they similar age. 
 
Participant: much older yeah. 


Interviewer: So they would be also working at Emory?


Participant: Yea.


Interviewer: How do you feel about your job, do you like it, and if you could rate it on a scale from one to 10 What would you give it. 
 
Participant: One to ten do I like my job, well it's my first, I would say official job straight out of college. So I don't really know how this works. But I would say. I sort of like it. It's flexible but it's not the job I want right now. Especially I really like comparing myself to my colleagues who really didn’t major in the same things that, like the same as I do. Most of them were either finance or computer science and they're making so much money, and it's sort of like comparison to others. So I would say I would rank somewhere, seven and a half. 
 
Interviewer: um How does, how does this compare to your previous job when you were working at the plasma company. 
 
Participant: Oh no definitely like a five, four solid four, yes, I left there early. I think, there just wasn't managed properly and there's just definitely a large disconnect and communication wise. And I had to drive like an hour and a half away to work. 
 
Interviewer: Where was it? 
 
Participant: gosh it was… Snellville? 
 
Interviewer: Okay, yeah a little far 
 
Participant: a little far. That it was like. I was already graduating and I didn't really have any hands-on experience, other than the research that I did in undergrad. So while I was applying for work at Emory, I had a friend who said just get the job, the closest, easiest job that I can get right now, so… 
 
Interviewer: get your foot in the door, get some experience. What were the people that you work with like there?
 
Participant: That one was much more of a like a mixed bag, you know, not a lot of young people, mostly. Well, there were, so, I would say, there were some that were younger than me and some who are older than me, and very diverse here well same thing here with Emory. But it felt a little bit isolated because, like they have their own crowd. They have own crowd and I'm in between where everybody can talk through I can do nothing to relate to. 
 
Interviewer: Yes, that could be lonely huh. What was the overall climate or like culture environment like there at the plasma company? 
 
Participant: there's a lot of hustle, because it's more like plasma donation company where it's like people are always in and out. And, of course, there, there will be some, there's a demographic of people coming into and donating plasma to get paid right. You know, not expecting millionaires or people of like higher privileged backgrounds to come in here so. Yeah same thing with people we approach here at Emory I think like you're like coming from a place of privilege, I don't feel like I'm above other people. But it's hard to relate with that sometimes. 
 
Interviewer: Yeah, yeah what would you say the culture, how would… 
 
Participant: I’m not sure that made any sense. The recording’s throwing me off a bit. Yeah so my train of thought, a little bit out there. 
 
Interviewer: The people at your current job that come in for this are not from privileged backgrounds either… 
 
Participant: Yeah more like a mixed bag, because we go to a hospital right. And you never know some people some subjects they don't come with like… yeah like it just think about people, you see, at a hospital you're not going to see this one type of person, it's multiple people. 
 
Interviewer: yeah. Pretty diverse
 
Participant: what's the culture, like you just have to act accordingly. 
 
Interviewer: Is it pretty fast paced there too, or… 
 
Participant: Actually it's much more relaxed there compared to my old job, yeah not too. 
 
Interviewer: um and would you call it like a pretty friendly, casual environment? 
 
Participant: For the most part.
 
Interviewer: cool um, can you tell me a little bit more about the demographics, of the people you work with, in terms of like their gender and race you already talked about their age, some so. 
 
Participant: Oh wow Okay, I guess, going into that. Surprisingly, I work… wait, gender, race? 
 
Interviewer: Yeah well, I guess, those would be the main ones yeah because you said they were all about 24-25 years old. 
 
Participant: Yeah I work with majority women. 
 
Participant: Mostly Caucasian. There's another co-worker here of mine, we just hired him. He’s Korean, so yeah so there's two guys and the majority of our team is women. 


Interviewer: And all the women were white?


Participant: Yeah
 
Interviewer: gotcha sorry there's a little bit of a lag, so if I if I seem to ask you a question a little bit delayed, it could be that… um do you ever feel like your race matters in how you're viewed at work? 
 
Participant: Oh man… I don't, I hope not. I like to think that it doesn't matter if my coworker sees me as Asian American or...
 
Interviewer: And what are, what are your subjects mostly like? Are they usually women as well, or they do, did they tend to be one race or another, or is it all pretty diverse? 
 
Participant: It's pretty diverse. But there are sometimes I'll see a patient, and they'll sort of rub me the wrong way. I'm not sure, because if I'm a... I said anything wrong, but no not really, I said the same thing if I see other patients, right subjects. But there are some cases where, maybe as a guy, as a man, or my race had something to do with it. Or most of time I just think oh they're probably going through something…
 
Interviewer: What are some examples of that? 
 
Participant: Oh wow. Well, there was… without breaking any HIPAA violations because I'm not really saying names. But it was one time, where I was… Actually, no, I never mind. We’re good. We're skipping that one. 
 
Interviewer: Yeah okay so sure um do you ever feel like there's any sort of stereotyping that goes on at work. 
 
Participant: To me personally? 
 
Interviewer: To you, to other people, anything that you've ever witnessed? 
 
Participant: No. 
 
Interviewer: Good, and so I'm really interested in how people feel and express emotions at work. So first of all, what kind of person, are you emotionally, are you would you consider an emotional person?
 
Participant: I like to think that at work, I tried to block it all off, I would say I'm an emotional person, but I don't bring that out at work. 
 
Interviewer: Can you tell me why, or do you have a reason. 
 
Participant: hmm. I guess that's how I was raised or how I saw articles have read like on the workforce, you shouldn't bring drama to the workforce or, you know, go to express too much strong opinions. Don’t talk about politics, religion—was it the big three? Sex, politics, religion. So yeah. 
 
Interviewer: And are you the kind of person who wears their emotions on their sleeves, so to speak, or is very open about what you're feeling, or do you tend to be more private about it?
 
Participant: um. I would say I tend to be more private about it. that's the one where people… Are a lot more people more private? 
 
Interviewer: It depends, it depends I've definitely seen a range of people. I will say that I think sometimes men tend to be a little bit more private about it than some of the women I've interviewed but yeah. Do you ever feel like emotionally burnt out or exhausted at work? 
 
Participant: Yeah but you know I can't complain about it right?
 
Interviewer: Why? 
 
Participant: Just like, it's just like you can't do that at work, you can’t talk about you know, how tired you are. Like I worked for, where I worked for a year without taking a single vacation actually. Yeah and I, after my one year, I actually signed up for a vacation because there is there's this sort of, I'm not sure in my head, I'm thinking, “Okay, I need them to see me as a hard worker” and “that doesn't take any days off for anything.” 
 
Interviewer: Do your colleagues, also work that hard, or do you just feel like that's personally something you need to do? 
 
Participant: Oh never thought about it that way, I guess that's for like a personal thing that I do… I don't really notice my colleagues’ work ethic. I just focus on myself and now, yes, how I'm on my superiors to see, for lack of a better word yes. 
 
Interviewer: have they said anything about you know, do you get evaluation or anything like that? 
 
Participant: No, I think we get evaluation after one year or so.  
 
Interviewer: Did you get yours already?
 
Participant: No not, not yet not yet I thought it would be bad you like it's not… My one year is actually June twenty. 
 
Interviewer: So it's been over a year. 
 
Participant: yeah. I talked to one of my managers and he said that maybe like around August, we’ll do the evaluation, this first I was trying to like in small ways to ask for a raise maybe. But I don't know how to approach, I don't know how to ask for that just yet, maybe I'm too shy, or maybe yeah. I just haven't found the right words yet. 
 
Interviewer: Have you talked to any of your colleagues about that have any of them ever asked for a raise. 
 
Participant: No, no that's the thing. I want to be more transparent about that, but I'm also I shouldn’t really ask how much my colleagues make compare how much I make. I think it's, I think it's better if we're more transparent about it, get pain more equally. But you know, so that we can work together to get paid more equally you know. But at the same time, I don't know I feel like it has to be a collective decision for that to happen, and I don't know how to sort of initiate that I can just be like oh hey how much do you make? 
 
Interviewer: casual conversation. 
 
Participant: Yea part of our conversation, I guess put that in the big three, right?  
 
Interviewer: Money? 
 
Participant: Like yeah money, this would be crazy right like if we're all sort of we're all clinical research coordinator once, and say that I make more money than my colleague, because I negotiate better, then I would feel bad for a colleague, but then, if they told me that they made more money than I've been making, then that would be like oh, that sucks and I'm not getting paid what I'm worth. I don't know. I'm just, I guess, I just have to be grateful because I got the job right, I think that's how I'm supposed to see things. 
 
Interviewer: Not necessarily they should be grateful that they have an employee right yeah yeah that's true. Do you feel extra pressure because it's covid related? 
 
Participant: Here at work? Um, extra pressure to work harder or… um because it's covid related, I would say so, a little bit. I'm not sure if the pressure is coming from, because it's like my first real job or because we approach coaching patients as well, who are the four P(20:06), but I feel like I do have to work a little bit harder because if personally it sucks if you have this amount of subjects to see in a day, and none of them enroll. Right? And it happens to me, sometimes you know, because at the end of the day, it's up to the subjects’ decision if they want to participate in studies or not. And in my head like, if I can only just get one, that means I did my job. And now it's sort of it's yeah it's sort of the humanizes or desensitizes me and instead of seeing you know the bigger picture, if I were doing this because it's quota research to me now it's just like I'm doing this, to get my numbers up. You know it's such a bad outlook, but… Maybe maybe after a year and you start to do a lot of a meditation on that or just think about it, some more. 
 
Interviewer: Is there ever a sense of like competition between you and your colleagues, or no? 
 
Participant: yeah definitely. Not not a new way of like outspoken like it's not said out loud, but you can sort of feel it because we're all in the same sort of position so we're always trying to reach out to other studies say like because it's like a oh other sub studies, where they need help, or what can I do with the office or can I can I do more work, so I can sort of get pull-off spotlight a little bit and then maybe I can get noticed for promotion or a raise or anything. Because I think that's how you do it right? Like if you’re reaching out and stuff, yeah like asking for more responsibilities and showing that you can actually handle them. 
 
Interviewer: have your colleagues worked at Emory or at the lab the same number of years as you too, or are some of them more established?


Participant: Some of them are actually more established colleagues, and are my age as well, but they're you know they're CRC twos instead of ones and yeah that's because they start working like a year ahead of me. When this substudy had just started, They work really hard too, very smart people, lots of really good people here. 
 
Interviewer: And they tend to be this similar age to you to they're just like a year older or something? 
 
Participant: Yeah like that, like a year older so. 
 
Interviewer: Can you think of any times when you felt particularly emotional at work or about work? 
 
Participant: Oh yeah oh yeah. One time I, so when the subject, we go to the hospital they you know subjects they would sign a consent form, if you want to participate and, of course, you have to send that to the office of course I'm not sure if you do the same thing here yeah so need to send it to be reviewed. But there are cases where subjects, you know I'm approaching really sick people and they can't really write as clear as they want to. And of course, I'll get an email back saying that it's not that it's not what they want, which makes sense right it's research, so it has to be highly regulated. And then, like have to please talk to the IRB and vote for that one I have to reach out to my director, which is like the big boss, and of course I'm scared to talk saying like oh I missed up. At that point I just I just felt so bummed the whole day when that happened because you know I try to be almost like super perfect no mistakes, you know, like flawless, but when you try to do that, and then you make one mistake, even though it's like clean record. I'm not sure, maybe they don't really maybe go serve to head, but in my mind like it probably focuses on the mistake more than what I've done so far. 
 
Interviewer: What was the mistake that you made? I'm a little confused. 
 
Participant: Oh sorry, so what they do so, the subject, instead of signing a signature they put their initials. 
 
Interviewer: Okay. 
 
Participant: yeah, which is very because, like yeah so. We design entire for the same properly, which is weird because you know some subjects their signature can be just like their initials. I'm not sure if you've seen people with like signatures like.
 
Interviewer: yeah. Mine wasn't. 
 
Participant: My it wasn't yeah mine wasn’t yeah. So it wasn't, for they just said, like next time, make him write there yeah. Everyone signs the full name is something. 
 
Interviewer: So, is that the only time that you made that sort of error or have you had there been other times like that. 
 
Participant: one second... it's only happened twice right now, and I hope it yeah the second time was they sort of, they scratched out a date. And, of course, that one you have to start over. yeah and of course we can't go back because you know subject would have been discharged or their back home, because when we only approach patients that hospital. 
 
Interviewer: So that person then, their record got thrown out or they weren't used in the study? 
 
Participant: Today I don't I don't know what happened after that, I would just reach out to my director and then she'll do the rest… I'm not sure the other steps of that. 
 
Interviewer: So, how did you feel in that incident. 
 
Participant: sucks because, like the first time it happened, I apologize, and I said I'll be better, and then it happened again. So now it feels like the first time I didn't learn from it. 
 
Interviewer: I mean people make mistakes, all the time… Was this recent or did this happen earlier on? 
 
Participant: It is actually. I would say around, yeah very recently happened very recently. 
 
Interviewer: That sort of fresh. 
 
Participant: So yeah, so let's say after one year. 
 
Interviewer: So, with the last couple of weeks, then yeah we. Did both of these incidents happen then or… 
 
Participant: Yeah because it was the same week where I messed up. 
 
Interviewer: Did your management say anything like negative or were they understanding. 
 
Participant: I had no reply, they didn't uh didn't really email me back. That's… I'm assuming it was okay. 
 
Interviewer: Sure, sure. yeah they're probably used to that, they probably have yeah. 
 
Participant: yeah I think because it's like. I'm new to this, it's easy for me to catastrophize, think that a problem is bigger than it really is. 
 
Interviewer: Did you talk to your colleagues about it at all?
 
Participant: yeah I did is I just told him to learn from me. They were good about, you know they didn’t really say anything mean, they're just they're sort of like patting my back, “That's okay.” Everything. And yeah like the smallest things like one time I signed with a red pen instead of a black pen and you know that, I don't think that's because this is official documents, so either black or blue. And again, I didn't think about that, so a lot of it is learning from my mistakes and not letting it happen again. 
 
Interviewer: How did, how do you feel emotionally like when you make these sorts of mistakes or when these sorts of incidents occur. 
 
Participant: Bad yeah. Disappointed I guess. I feel like I lost two gold stars. Yeah like. Have you ever seen the Spongebob episode, where he had, like so many gold stars or something. 
 
Interviewer: When being like the fry cook or whatever? 
 
Participant: yeah or at some like a driving school. 
 
Interviewer: Maybe. vaguely yeah  
 
Participant: And then they had to like, she scraped one off and on the side it ruined him recently that sort of thing. Yea, so… 
 
Interviewer: Can you think of any times when you felt like anxious or worried about work. 
 
Participant: Oh man so every time actually I submit a document for it to be reviewed, I feel anxious, because now, I feel like “oh my God, did they sign it properly?” Even though it's perfectly fine, they're going to find something to query on or something they will need to, and I have to reach out to my director again. Yeah I didn't have this, I wasn't so anxious about it back then, when I would just take a look at document books final send it, but after I'm getting my queries about how I should be doing things that's when I'm becoming more sort of shaky on what I do. 
 
Interviewer: So yeah so more recently as well. 
 
Participant: yeah. 
 
Interviewer: Have you ever felt angry or irritable at work? 
 
Participant: No, no. 
 
Interviewer: No, not an angry person? 
 
Participant: no, I try not to be. I try not to argue with anyone. 
 
Interviewer: Yeah. 
 
Participant: yeah it's super, because I just don't know how can say, I have no… 
 
Interviewer: What about frustrated?  
 
Participant: With myself, most of the time, but not with any other people. 
 
Interviewer: Like in these examples that you told me about? 
 
Participant: yeah like oh man, why can’t I just get it right, sometimes or why do I keep making yeah. 
 
Interviewer: It sounds like you're very hard on yourself, is that something that you've noticed? 
 
Participant: hah, maybe yeah I guess I'm a little hard on myself that's because I really want to do well. it's such a cop out answer. 
 
Interviewer: Were you like that in college too or is that more just the workplace thing. 
 
Participant: I would say, though, it's more of a workplace thing, I'm much more a laissez faire, I was more like relaxed in college like homework deadlines perfectly fine this there's no real world consequences really apart from a grade. But here it's like there are consequences. 
 
Interviewer: In the past couple of years, been there's been an increase in news about violence against Asians. Has that affected you at all, and what do you think about that? 
 
Participant: You're talking about the shooting here in Atlanta. 
 
Interviewer: And other violence. 
 
Participant: up in New York? 
 
Interviewer: Yeah in New York, as well yeah. 
 
Participant: yeah it has definitely affected, rubbed me the wrong way. Frankly, I don't know who to talk to about that though. I don't really have that much Asian friends, most of them are either other country or they moved to different state and we just found, what got lost in touch, so yeah I've been very angry about that, but not as vocal as I want to be. Because I'm just looking for the consequences if I… sorry what was the question? 
 
Interviewer: How has that affected you, and do you think about it a lot, or is it something that, just like when it happened, it bothered you? 
 
Participant: I think about it sometimes still. 
 
Interviewer: yeah. 
 
Participant: I don't know how to act because, you know as an Asian American, I feel like we're not, i'm like, i'm not supposed to get angry or go out and, maybe it's just me, maybe a lot more other people are more vocal than I am. 
 
Interviewer: yeah when you say as an Asian American you're not supposed to get angry, what do you mean by that? 
 
Participant: Like I shouldn't. Like I I'm an immigrant, so I'm scared to disappoint people or like say to show people that there's a dark side or whatever so. It's really unhealthy, though, because it's almost like it's just showing all the good parts all the time, like 24-7, 365, and I feel like now, if I blow up or I get angry or anything that will look bad on me. 
 
Interviewer: So do you feel like you there's pressure to be kind of happy all the time. 
 
Participant: or like yeah happy or good worker, not, mostly like keep your head down. 
 
Interviewer: Is that from you, is that from your parents, is that from culture, what would you attribute that to? 
 
Participant: I think it's mostly from me, part of it is parents and culture yeah. 
 
Interviewer: What about from your peers or the people surrounding you, do you feel like they have those expectations as well or? 
 
Participant: not really, no. My peers are more outgoing, I feel like they’re more comfortable with themselves and vocalizing their opinions. 
 
Interviewer: And does it seem like they expected you to be quiet too or no? 
 
Participant: I don't think, no I, I’m not quiet. But mostly I just seemed like a chameleon where I just blend in, I don't really make my own opinions and things. Wow, holy crap I didn’t know I'd say that. Or like just be more agreeable, likable. Yeah. 
 
Interviewer: What do you think would happen if you were to voice your opinions or you know, act on your feelings about you know the anti-Asian violence or anything like that? 
 
Participant: I feel like. Well, most of my colleagues will probably be okay with it because you know, they're very liberal. But even if I voice it out, I don't know much about it or, I feel like. Sorry, you said what would they feel like if I voice— 

Interviewer: What do you think would happen? Yeah. 
 
Participant: mm hmm. I don't know, I feel, like my colleagues, or my friends would be supportive of me doing that because I'm sure they understand where I'm coming from. At the same time I don't really do it because it's a workplace. And I'm not sure if that would be appropriate to talk about at work. 
 
Interviewer: Have you ever vented to your colleagues about anything? 
 
Participant: No. 
 
Interviewer: Do they ever vent to you? 
 
Participant: yes. 
 
Interviewer: And what are some what are some examples of that. 
 
Participant: Like uh, colleagues talking about other colleagues, which is already bad. yeah it's like this person said this, and said that. And I’m like it probably comes from good intentions or sometimes I just I just listen and nod my head yeah yeah. So yeah with this, again being agreeable or not starting any trouble you know. I’m not sure if that's the ethical way doing things, I think the better way is to be like you and you need to work things together. 
 
Participant: yeah. 
 
Interviewer: Have you ever done that before? 
 
Participant: To tell people or to give people advice? Sometimes I tried to, but most often I don't give advice, because sometimes I think what if I gave the wrong advice—advice that I don't even, I wouldn't even follow myself. You know? 
 
Interviewer: Fair that's fair. Is there anything else, that your colleagues come to you to listen for or anything like that? Did they complain to you about other things. 
 
Participant: Apart from life or work? yeah generally like how you talk to a friend yeah. 
 
Interviewer: Do you consider your colleagues friends? 
 
Participant: Yeah, is that weird? 
 
Interviewer: No, not at all actually, I think some people want it they're allowed to but yeah. 
 
Participant: Yeah, yeah because it's like I know we should all have boundaries, right? Like establish those boundaries. But at the same time I hang out with my colleagues outside of work, and we try not to talk about work outside of work, too, but you know. 
 
Interviewer: Do you ever talk about personal things during work, or outside of work, with your coworkers? 
 
Participant: Honestly, no I don’t. I still act the same way outside of work, even though when we're hanging on. Huh.  
 
Interviewer: Do they act the same way too? 
 
Participant: More or less yeah they do. 
 
Participant: But it’s weird. I know it makes you wonder like, are we really showing our true selves? Even though we’re outside of work setting? which is weird because, like I don't think we are, because at the end of the day, we're still going to see each other Monday morning, tomorrow, and we're still going to act like… 
 
Interviewer: So maybe that's kind of at the back of your head sometimes. 
 
Participant: Yeah. Sure, you can go to like a dinner with your work friends, but one, what if you say something wrong. Or like you get into a disagreement with someone. Oh, I don't, but like that would probably affect how they were the following day, and I guess that that's why boundaries are important, I guess. 
 
Interviewer: Is there anything else about your workplace that we haven't discussed that you want to talk about. 
 
Participant: hmm not really. I think this is just like a friendly conversation, and it didn’t really feel like a research thing. So that’s very good, thank you for making me feel comfortable about that. 
 
Interviewer: Good I'm glad yeah that's sort of the goal. I tend to be kind of awkward about it. A couple demographic questions for you, I don't know if these have all come up, okay you're located in Atlanta, did you mention, where you were born and grew up? 
 
Participant: yeah oh no I didn't. I was born in ___ city, which is like north. I've lived a little bit down South in ___ and in Manila, which is the capital. yeah before I went here in the States and I lived in Atlanta well my whole teenage, and like I guess my young adult life. 
 
Interviewer: So your parents and you immigrated to Atlanta. 
 
Participant: No, no, my mom immigrated first. I guess the same immigrant story you hear. You go to a different country for, to have a better life for you and your kids in the future. So, and so she I haven't seen her for like nine years and then she has, suddenly get like a sponsorship to go to the States and like whoa what I'm going to go to live with her. Yeah I don't even know her, honestly I'm. 
 
Interviewer: So you went by yourself then when you went?  
 
Participant: with my sister. yeah my sister came. 
 
Interviewer: Is your sister older or younger? 
 
Participant: Older she's uh she's four years older than me four or five years… 30, 29, 28? 
 
Interviewer: yeah do you all live in Atlanta still or together or. 
 
Participant: yeah we do I think coming from a very collectivist society. I guess, I would say, like my cultures. We put to sort of put our family first instead of our own individualism, which is different here in the States, people really one of the, you know, and that’s where I’m like sort of at an impasse, where I should adapt and be my own person too, but culture strikes me down you know. 
 
Interviewer: And, can you tell me your age? 
 
Participant: I just turned 24 June sixth last month yeah. 
 
Interviewer: And what are your gender pronouns? 
 
Participant: He/him. 
 
Interviewer: yeah gotcha um I think that's all my questions I don't know if there's anything else you wanted to say. 
 
Participant: Oh God I wish I was helpful in answering some of the questions I'm not sure if you're going to get anything from. 
 
Interviewer: I think you were. 
 
Participant: All my ramblings. 
 
Interviewer: No, it was very interesting, it was very interesting, so thank you for sharing everything. 
 
Participant: Thank you, what's the end goal? 
 
Interviewer: So I don't have an end goal, specifically because I'm trying to go in with as few preconceptions and assumptions as possible. Someone asked me what my hypotheses are, and I have some theories about things and stuff that I've read in prior literature, but I don't, I don't want to have a hypothesis, because I don't want. 
 
Participant: I oh yeah no pressure. I should know what I mean yeah but is there a lot of parallelism and similarities to what I've said to other people?
 
Interviewer: yeah. 
 
Participant: or I really am an individual myself?
 
Interviewer: No, no, not at all I think. Um, the feeling that you need to be good and not rock the boat too much, you know that kind of feeling is somewhat of a pattern that I've seen. 
 
Participant: Really?
 
Interviewer: And wanting to work really hard and be you know the best at your job, and everything. That’s definitely something I've seen with a lot of people. 
 
Participant: Some other people I just saw that you were just looking at the Asian American demographic did you look at other people, as well as if. 
 
Interviewer: there's research on other people that isn't comparative per se, because it's not all in one study you know but yeah I'm kind of focus on different things um so yeah I think it is interesting, I think it would be, it would be cool to one day do a comparative study where you're looking at different races or different groups of people all at once. But yeah and so maybe that'll happen some other time in the future yeah but for now, I just wanted to focus on this group because there's not a lot of research about. 
 
Participant: yeah that's it. yeah I hope I said some very substantial things. 
 
Interviewer: You did. 
 


