Interview 30 
 
Allison S: So to start us off, do you mind just introducing yourself and telling me a little bit about who you are, where you're from, and I’m like a brief summary of your education and employment background?
 
Participant 30: Okay it's a lot I’ll try my best school. I’m participant 30. I am…. My parents are South Korean immigrants so I’m second gen and I was born and raised in urban Philadelphia in the heart of the city. And with, you know, an upbringing in Philadelphia, my parents, you know, struggling kind of poverty, so a background, that was a pretty rough start. And thinking as a lot of immigrant mentality, education is the way out, and so my career path was just whatever I saw in front of me, teachers, so I didn't have a mentor that didn't have internships and have these opportunities to explore what it is that I wanted to do, but I saw teachers in front of me and thought “Okay, I want to become a teacher,” and so that's kind of how I chose my educational career. So I graduated from Dickinson. It's in a small town in Carlisle. That's how I know Helene as well. But this college is kind of in a not an urban area very different from Philadelphia, and I ended up staying in this area, because I met my now husband. And so my education or career has kind of stayed in this area, so taught at three different public schools, high school English, taught at a cyber charter school, high school English. And then I was the head of school, a school leader, for three years at a small private school in Harrisburg. And then, now I am working with global online Academy in the student programs team, working with international schools for global program.
 
Allison S: Very cool. So, can you tell me a little.... Yeah, yeah, no that's great that's perfect um. Can you tell me a little bit more about your current role, and what you do day-to-day there?
 
Participant 30: I’m the associate director of student equity and success, which is a lengthy title just to say anything student facing. I do so student communications, students surveys analyzing, just strengthening the student experience, making sure we have equitable practices, making sure that students can be in our programs from all over the world and all over the US and have the same access opportunity and strong learning experience, regardless of where they're coming to us from.
 
Allison S: That would make sense yeah. Can you tell me more about the organization, like what the size of that, what’s the culture like there?
 
Participant 30: It’s a 25-member team. I’m in a group when I came in, I think it was like 10 people, so the I came in right in the pandemic. I was heading a school. I help the school shut down, and I was a part of that, like Oh, when the dust settle realizing when I am burnt out, and I am done, and I don't think I ever want to lead a school again. So that's why I found myself in this role, but I came in right at the pandemic and their numbers had shot up. So what they do is they provide passion based courses online and offer to, I mean, just saying very elite schools all over the US and international schools. So right now, they serve schools where I don't know that I could ever afford the tuition. And even though their school might be international, it's, you know, I’m sure children in the country with that country code born and raised there can't afford to or get into these elite private schools and international schools, so we provide these courses online, but bring all these kids in globally to take this one course interact with one another and have this a global learning experience through this online course. And it's taught by a teacher that we hire and contract from all over the world, so you have a global teacher and global peers. (...)
 
Allison S: Okay cool um what's the culture like there? Like How would you describe the atmosphere, or like the mood of your work place? (...)
 
Participant 30: It was built for and by elite white people. So the culture is driven by the fact that it was built for and by, and I think that I’m hitting a wall of frustration, because it's very obvious that, like oh let's, let's bring in diversity and let's bring in some people who will make it look like we are a true, I mean they say, well, they are they are a global organization, but if you look at the leadership team when I came in, it was all white males and one white female. And I think there's two persons of color on the leadership team now? And so the culture is like it was very clear from the beginning. It was like “oh I don't belong here.” And I tried it wasn't a lack of trying oh I hosted virtual happy hours, I was the one like who like went gung ho into the in person retreat. I took up you know different opportunities to create belonging and inclusion and I’m now at the point I’m like “I don't want to do that anymore unless you're going to pay me” and I’m sick and tired of this, like the mission statement. We have a brand new strategic plan that puts equity in the middle for students and they're trying to diversify by bringing in public school kids and kids who can't, but it's like it's dollar signs. But to me I’m like if you can't even do it right at your organization, how are you going to do well for the students? So, I’ve been a very loud person is saying you can't just bring students in here and then traumatize them by making them realize that they don't belong, and that they will fail because your systems, your entire organization. It's like the example that I use the organizational culture. It's like you built an entire building full of steps and now you're trying to bring people in wheelchairs in and you're really confused why these individuals are having a hard time navigating the building. It's just it's like mind boggling how people don't see this.
 
Allison S: Sure. How would you say you feel about your job overall?
 
Participant 30: Um. (...) I hate it.
 
Allison S: Oh no. If you have to rate it on a scale from like one to ten, what would you give it?
 
Participant 30: Two.
 
Allison S: Gotcha, yeah, so are you looking to transition to somewhere else?
 
Participant 30: Oh yeah, I’m in negotiations right now. 
 
Allison S: It’s good.
 
Participant 30: But I’m telling people this is the norm like.
 
Allison S: Yeah.
 
Participant 30: Like will this happen in my next place because I was like I was the only teacher of color in the entire high school at Cumberland valley high school that serves like 2000 kids in one building. And I was a teacher of color Hershey high school, blue ribbon school. And it's like constantly moving and going. Oh my gosh there is no place for me here.
 
Allison S: Why do you think there are so many teachers who are white and not as many who are people of color?
 
Participant 30: Well, if you want to go into a history lesson, there's an incredible podcasts that came out Malcolm Gladwell, I think it's like revisiting history. And he talked about the brown horse versus education, like you think, board of education, you think oh wow school integration, but what it actually unintended effects were when schools had to integrate, who, what, which schools got shut down? The schools with teachers of color. Like there any higher history of why there are no teachers of color and I’m looking at and, if you look at GRA, they tried to hide the team link like deep into their footnotes at the bottom, because it was it was problematic. People find it and they're like “cool looks like you're really comfortable with a specific type of brown person”. Zero black team members. It's like you're a global education whereas you’re predominantly white in not only your team structure, but in the international teachers you hire. Like it's insane, and I keep pointing these things out and nobody seems to get it. Like “it's all coincidence,” it's all. But this is almost every organization I go to.
 
Allison S: Sure, what are your coworkers than your current position like? Are you and in what capacity do you interact with other people?
 
Participant 30: I’m that person I tried really hard because I’m so relationship-driven and I love people, so the pandemic was really hard when I’m like I can't get together with people every day, this is going to be miserable. So I’m the person I will think who have I not slack message today, I mean this week and I’ll reach out to someone random go “hey just want to check in how's your husband doing I remember, he was sick.” But I’m that person I’m so driven by relationships, so I do that and try, but there are times that I’m like I it's hard because everyone on the leadership team like they've got lake houses and yards and they go on vacations all the time and like they don't understand the concept of poverty, like being in the second gen immigrant or the idea of racism. There's just so much tone deaf comments, micro aggressions. Of course everyone is all well meaning. And sometimes I just get tired of calling out, and so I just stopped now, but there's like this trusted, two trusted people who I have their I have their cell phone numbers and in meetings texting and sending gifts and like the only thing that keeps me alive and you know it's another woman of color who's in there and is being treated like the maid of the organization. Even though she has her doctorate, nobody takes her seriously she's been tone policed when there's other you know white females in the organization, who are loud and abrasive and nobody calls them out. So, it's just… it's sad and exhausting but I sadly only have two people that I trust enough to have actual genuine and they're the ones who know about me and my family. But I just think I’m like there's no point in showing up and sharing.
 
Allison S: Sure, yeah can you give me some examples of the sorts of micro aggressions that you've experienced that at your workplace?
 
Participant 30: Do I have to say this workplace or should I mentioned others or…?
 
Allison S: It can be anything in your experience.
 
Participant 30: I want to say, these are my micro. When I was the only teacher color at Hershey high school, I thought I was being called into a meeting with a parent who was concerned, because his son had plagiarized not once but twice. So, I’m in this meeting and the principal called it, and I was shocked, because the father starts asking the white male principle. The white male father’s like “I don't understand how she is teaching my son English” and was putting his finger in my face. “How are you teaching my son English? Who’s the principal? I want to see her certifications. Does she have a teaching CERT that she's that you said she's an English major? I want to see it all,” and I looked at the principal and he did nothing. He just sat there, and I was like “please remove your finger from my face.” 
 
And that's when I’m like I’m going to quit, but it was at that same school that a schoolman who was marked the high school quarterback. Black male student was like “oh Ms. Men, I’m going to talk to you” I was like “yeah that's fine.” And he’s like “no, I don't know how to say this.” I’m like “okay.” “Can I write it down?” And I was like “Mark, what is going on? You can just tell me.” He was like “hey I don't know how to say.” Then in our final exit sounds like you've got to tell me. And he's like “someone is spreading rumors about you that they saw you in a like a pornography film.” I’m like what?! He's like “yeah, they said it's an Asian woman with reddish hair like you, and he's been promising to show us all the football team members but hasn't brought the video in, but the rumor has gotten so big. Parents are talking about it now. And he's because he's failing your class, and he's angry at you, and I know it's a lie, and I keep telling him to stop but he's like ‘I didn't think it would get this big.’” Of course, I bring it to the school what happens. They have a little meeting with he and his father. And then it's swept under the rug. I’m like you could have destroyed my work, my reputation. Parents were getting up in arms and starting to ask if the parents are going to the principal and saying we are hearing rumors that you have a teacher in your building, and I was like and what's the easiest “oh hyper sexualized Asian woman” clearly like it could have been… I could have been a drug dealer no I had to have to be a porn star. And the school did nothing. And I was furious. Of course I was, I was like “Okay, I had to go,” and that meeting happened on my birthday, I remember just sobbing in my classroom. 
 
Allison S: Oh no.
 
Participant 30: And I was like how is this happening. Those are two just many others or this is the one that I was reliving yesterday to get a little repeat but it's like I was at the top. I was the head of school I worked so hard to be the head, not even a principal. This is the head of a private school. And I’m like I’m the decision maker. I’m the person now. No, no, no, the school board, all the white people, in that organization did not take me seriously. They wanted me to be their puppet. And because I didn't count out to all of what they wanted me to do in that role, the way I was treated the things that have board members were… They would have board meetings just start yelling at me. I’m like you're gonna have to keep your eyes, like this is not how you speak to other adults. This is not how you interact. And then the final combination was a parishioner who was on my hiring committee, who I thought was a mentor, a former head of school, who would always check in and see how I’m doing, saw me at an event and groped me. Like put his hand up my skirt and groped me. And I think that was the most devastating thing because yeah, his assault could have been so much worse. But it was the betrayal. I was like that's how you saw me the whole time and then when I reported it to the priest. He gaslit me. And he said “__(the participant’s name)  let me believe I was… she was going to have a relationship with me.” And I was like what?! Like every time I was with you, my husband and children were with you. It was because of the dress I was wearing. It's because I was so overly friendly. I went to go take a selfie with him. I was like oh round come here, take a selfie. It was because of the way I approached him. And so, like everything was turned on me. I’m like…. And I remember asking everyone who knew about this incident. If that was a rich white female parishioner that made this claim that a black male head of school groped her, would you respond differently? Like, no, no, no, we wouldn't. I was like bull (shit). This is what happens because it's a rich white male parishioner who gives lots of money to this church and to this private school, and because I’m just… I’m a joke to everyone, but even that assault was not even taken seriously and was brushed under. (...) Can you see why I signed up to speak to you?
 
Allison S: Yea I know. Yeah definitely either wow I just can't even believe that some of the things that have happened to you. I’m so sorry. I mean, this is probably I think I already know the answer to this, but to what extent do you feel like you can just be yourself at work, and do you find that you have to act at a certain way at different points in time?
 
Participant 30: Yeah, I can't be myself. It's exhausting. It's very exhausting. And I’m hoping to move to this organization, because I have…Oh it’s a female CEO. Oh, a black male in leadership who's a good friend of mine. Two black females, who I got jobs. Like I can see that, I see the happiness in my friends where they felt the way I did like I. They're always just like clenched up and I see them laughing enjoy phone like I wanted to get in. Bring me in, because I want to know what that's like to have eight hours of my day where I’m working where I’m not walking on eggshells, holding my breath. And the biggest betrayals like somebody who called himself “my mentor” saw me as an object like. Like that was that was heartbreaking to be like “oh that's how people see me okay.” I’m a porn star or a piece of me or not taken seriously, or not capable of teaching English to children.
 
Allison S: Yeah, yeah. It seems like a lot of highly racialized experiences. What do you think might happen if you, you know didn't walk on eggshells, and express some of the things that you were thinking or feeling other time?
 
Participant 30: Oh, I know exactly what happened because I did, especially at that school because I, my own daughter went to that school. And that's cool yeah maybe 7% students of color. And I’ve even tried strategic moves, like bringing a Taiwanese friend, a Korean male friend, and a Muslim friend, and a black female friend onto the board, so I was trying to stack the school board to help me when there was an opening. And I didn’t let the people... I didn't let Google Members know that they were connected to me. I tried to start. I tried everything strategic moves to make sure that I can remain in my position and have like a little bit of power to do the right things, and whenever something was wrong, I would speak up I’m like “this is wrong.” I was tone policed. I was told “oh you're like you're getting too angry: like I’m speaking passionately about the fact that what the decision you're making is going to be harmful to children. 
 
I called out to the (something) “what you're doing is racist” and met with defensiveness anger. In this organization, I don't know how many times my supervisor has said to me “thank you, Participant 30, even though your supervisor, I feel like you are my mentor in these issues around equity and inclusion.” But nothing that's done. I have so many times that comment that teacher made about our black female teacher is grossly inappropriate. It is filled with bias and a straight up racist. I don't think it's racism. I was like “let me bring in our Director of Equity in this conversation.” The Director of Equity is like oh that's racist and you can get fired for saying that. Like see I am trying to make people aware. Even in a meeting yesterday with our team, to say can we call out the fact that in our 10-year history, there has not been a single black team member, and the only one that was hired quit after two weeks. Can we talk about this elephant in the room? And everyone just stares at me like so we're not going to talk about it. Okay that's good. They want me to join the equity committee. They want me to join all of these things. Like LM. But I’m like, why? You're going to pay me boo koo bucks and I know I’m just going to talk and then nobody does anything. At least I’m being paid money for it. But there's always this like performative desire to want to know and change, but in the end, when it actually comes down to it, it was all performative. Nobody really wants to change. People like the way it is, and people like me will phase out.
 
Allison S: Sure. What were the inciting like comments in the incident that happened with the personnel or and with the suit your supervisor?
 
Participant 30: A white female coach was having a meeting with…It is a coach of a black female teacher and it's very interesting because we have very few black teachers, and last year, almost everyone who was fired or not given a contract was a teacher of color, and I’m like can we collect this data. But regardless of that, I was having a meeting with this white coach, and she was like “I just don't…” So the white coach’s name is Natalie and Stephanie is the name of the black female teacher. She and Natalie. “One thing I don't, I don't understand why Stephanie just doesn't get it like? How does she have a doctorate? She’s just stupid, but how does one make it up the ranks all the way to a doctor it? And she doesn't get the basic things that I’m trying to teach her. I just I think she's dumb right. I’m wondering how she got those degrees.” So to me that's like obvious, and of course my supervisors like nothing about race was mentioned, I was like it doesn't.. You don't… Would she questioned the degree and the intelligence if… Like I’ve never heard her speak about another person like this. (...) 
 
And then, one of our White team members had an interaction with a black female teacher who I’ve had lovely interactions with. But she said, instead of how, you know, giving us a rundown of what the content of the meeting was, she was like “well, Jennifer was…” Jennifer is the black teacher so she's like “Jennifer was defensive. She was getting really aggressive with her tone. Um she wasn't listening to me. I don't think she wanted to hear anything I had to say” and I was like I want to know the content of your conversation, so I can better understand what's going on. And all it was unlike you, you just listed a bunch of stereotypes about an angry black woman, because she did not respond to you in the way you had hoped, so I brought it to my supervisor that I am not comfortable with the way our team members are speaking about our teachers. And he's like “oh no, no, it's not racism.” It's just she's frustrated.” And so, of course, I had to break down for you and, like let me, let me read your line. Ibram X. Kendi says “there is racism or anti-racism. There is no such thing as not racism.” And I was like “why am I teaching this man this.” This is exhausting and he's like “oh,” and I’m like “so what she did was not anti-racist. It's racist.” We need to have some conversations and he's like “how about you lead that?” I was like “how about not, it's not in my job description. I’m exhausted.” How about you hire a consultant, and you get the team member, team members here, to get some level set training, to get some basic vocab and then I’ll have a conversation when it's safe, but like I’m not walking into a conversation with any of you. (...)
 
Allison S: What is some of your colleagues who you said, you can confide in a couple of them? Like what kind of comments do they say, or what do they have to say about all these things?
 
Participant 30: They're just shocked. They share things with me that happen in their meetings that where they feel like they're screaming and to avoid to like… Something is wrong with this, right? And nobody else thinks there's anything wrong then they bring it to me as I. Am I being gas lit or Is this something wrong, and I will tell them oh my gosh that is wrong that's not okay. And it's always this like having to check in to make sure that we're not losing our minds that something is really not okay with us in our hearts and souls. But everybody else seems like “oh Participant 30’s being dramatic” and so I always just do a check in with these two folks like. Again, please just tell me the truth, you don't have to like pad me. I don't need that. I need you to tell me like is this is this off or is this mean I don't know it's off. And so they're the individuals I check in with just to know that I am insane. 
 
Allison S: Do you think your comments would be received differently if you were a white woman or a white male?
 
Participant 30: Absolutely. 
 
Allison S: In what way? (...)
 
Participant 30: It would be listened to I’ve seen…When I deal with certain individuals, I will get to a point that I can't. I realized that this conversation is going to go nowhere so. Then I go to my supervisor who's a white male and say “it's time to bring in your title and your white male status. I’m going to need you to shut this down because I am doing my best I can’t do it more”. And he'll send one email or have one meeting and then everyone stops and listens. It is so infuriating, but it's become a joke now, where I come in and I’m like “all right Jason, I’m calling in the white male director to say exactly what I’m saying, but the minute you say it it's going to be received and there will be movement” and he said “I hate that. It's like that I’m like I get it, how do you think I feel, and I just go do what you need to do to support me.”
 
Allison S: Yeah. um. One thing that I’m interested in, obviously, is how people feel and express their emotions in the workplace and so it'd be helpful to know like, how do you consider yourself emotionally? Do you consider yourself an emotional person? Do you consider yourself the type of person who shared most openly or you feel like you're more reserved or private?
 
Participant 30: I’m very open, and I am a very processed and therapised human being. I spent tons of money to make sure I am well. And so, I think that is helpful in the fact that my supervisor knows that on our one-on-ones. He's like “okay Participant 30, what is it” and I will say “I noticed this thing that happened and I’m not comfortable with it, and I think it's a problem, and I think it's a systemic problem, and I will mention it.” And he always ends with “I appreciate your candor” and I was like “I appreciate you listening for knowing that you might not do anything about what I just said.” Like I’m just even honest with him, and that was like “I don't know how much you can do, but I am telling her. You're on the leadership team.” So yeah, I have no problems telling people what's on my mind. Um, yeah.
 
Allison S: Do you ever feel like you have to refrain from saying certain things, or you know, expressing a certain emotion?
 
Participant 30: Yes. But I will… I would say to certain people in the organization. Like I wouldn't say these things to the executive director. I say to my supervisor. But then I also refrain from saying a lot, because I know people just don't have that a base understanding. Like yes, I had a conversation with Natalie and I was like “what you said about Stephanie really bothered me.” Like “oh, why? About me calling her dumb and wondering how she got so far in her degree?” to give us an idea. But I didn't use the word “that's racist,” but I did give her my personal example when I had my degrees question as being an English teacher. And I refrained from saying “what you said was extremely racist.” What I said was “here's an example when it happened to me and how harmful it was.” And she's like “oh I’m so sorry I hurt your feelings,” “no, no, this isn't about me I’m saying, I am very uncomfortable about the way you’re speaking about our black female teacher.” And like I’m like oh she's not getting it okay. So I’ll have the conversation with her, but I also refrain from being very real because I don't I don't think people get it, and it's not my job to help them get it.
 
Allison S: Sure. Um can you think of any other times when you felt like a particularly strong emotion that work? This could be any emotion. (...)
 
Participant 30: Yeah I mean I have, I have so much anger, but I do have moments of joy like I think about the work that I did when I was head of school and the families that I worked with, and I think about like my office staff. I think about when I was teaching and the friendships that I made and the communities I built like I was a person who organized the happy hours to get togethers, to say goodbyes for people, the baby showers. And I still have friends from almost every job that I’ve had. The ones that I’ve trusted and have still remained a part of their lives, and now they have kids and I have kids and they play with each other, so I would look back and say yeah, I was able to find great joy incredible people regardless of how angry I was.
 
Allison S: Sure. What, what are the demographics of the students that you've worked with, in these different settings?
 
Participant 30: Cumberland Valley, the one public school was predominantly white, but when they had students of color, they were not black they were Asian, lots of South Asians and East Asians. Not a lot of southeast. When I worked at Harrisburg city, predominantly black. When I worked at Hershe predominantly white and, of course, again students of color were, because of the MED Center, East South Asian. And now, although it's a global organization, yeah this the same thing, it's predominantly white followed by East and South Asian students.
 
Allison S: About what percent would you say are the Asian students?
 
Participant 30: In my current role?
 
Allison S: Sure yeah.
 
Participant 30: Oh gosh I could probably get you the numbers if I look in that in salesforce. That's something you're interested in. I think I can email that to you.
 
Allison S: Okay yeah that'd be really interesting. Um was your experience different at your Harrisburg school where your student population with different?
 
Participant 30: Yeah absolutely. It was, it was not just as…It was an urban school a failing district that was taken over by the state high poverty students who are mainly on free and reduced meals. Students coming to us with high Ace scores, trauma backgrounds, it was very different. I would just say just from that context, and then I’d say the teachers. I became the closest to some of those teachers, because we were in survival mode together. There was a lot of who think community around breaking up fights or helping us and through crisis, or yeah, I mean it was very high stress. 
 
(...) But with really committed teachers and it was refreshing because that's the one teacher, where I wasn't the only teacher of color. Only school, there were you know, Mr. Johnson a black teacher and I had my bestie who is a black female teacher, and then there was another Asian teacher on campus that I became friends with, and I was like “this is great.” But it just wasn't sustainable, and I noticed that Cumberland valley in Hershey, I was the only teacher of color. All the students of color hung out in my room. It was like wonderful and sad. But all the students like flock to my room after school. At some point, I’m like y'all need to go home like I need some alone time but at lunchtime I don't want in the cafeteria can eat your room. Hung out my room before school. And I just realized How sad, it was at the students just pray for that you're the only one, and these students crave to see a teacher who look like them, and they just had never seen one. (...)
 
Allison S: What would you say keeps you going in these contexts? What sustains you? (...)
 
Participant 30:  The small moments where I saw people's hearts and minds change. Like it's far and few between, but I know I’m like oh wow I remember how I had a really necessary and tough conversation with this person, and I saw kind of the light bulb go off, or like even my husband, I mean he's a white male and he just didn't get it, I mean from his upbringing, but just the conversations I now that he to see that he has with his White friends. And ultimately, like what fuels me is I don't know that I’ll see it in my lifetime, but this idea that like every child, regardless of their zip code their poverty status, the hue of their skin, like every child can have a really good education, regardless of where they live, regardless of who they are. (...) It's so inequitable. It's so awful still, and I keep thinking like, if I can move the needle even for one school organization, but I think that's what keeps me going.
 
Allison S: Sure, yeah that's great um. Has anything been different for you with the pandemic, in terms of you know how work and feeling or whether some of these contacts or situate shouldn't happen as much or anything like that?
 
Participant 30: I would say in my day-to-day personal walking around life, things have gotten like outside of my home, things have not been great. Like I’ve walking the river with my girls during the pandemic, somebody yelling at me for blaming me for the coronavirus. That was scary like with my kids with me. With the trump era, like family members on stem side, like, I had to strange myself from his family and started to get really ugly. But then also, I would say, the thing that I changed about my. professional life is after I quit being head of school enrolled into this job, which is a fully remote work from home. I feel like I can do my job when I sleep it's a waste of my skills. What I did was I had time and space and capacity to like create the Harrisburg AAPI group. Happy, and it's just like an organic like we get together, we support each other, we have events together, you know we do political advocacy. 
 
It's like… It's just like come one come all. I’m volunteering, and it's like having this identity that has nothing to do with my work. People even to this day are like “Participant 30, I have no idea what you do,” I was like and it's Okay, but everyone always knew Participant 30’s a high school teacher. Participant 30’s a head of school. I was what I did, and now, nobody knows what the heck I do on a daily basis, and I don't really care because after my work day ends, and even during my work day I’m able to plug into communities where I can be like myself and I don't rely on my workplace to give that to me because I know it just can't.
 
Allison S: So, in that sense, would you say that being fully remote has been a good thing, or do you feel like there are kind of drawbacks and stuff too? (...)
 
Participant 30: In the beginning it was hard because I’m such an extreme extrovert. It's actually…If any, if you had any one of my close friends and family members, “Participant 30's been to a full remote job, how do you think it's going to go for her?” It will be like “we're all worried about her.” Everyone was worried about me. But man have I found a rhythm and a beautiful sense of life, and there's like a like I don't have to deal with micro aggressions as much. As their comments about “are you eating spaghetti with chopsticks? That's cool! What else do you eat with chopsticks?” I mean, “could you just leave me alone?” or what that looks so cool. I’m like it's beef. So, I’ve completely avoided the weird questions or you know, or like my daughter’s just babbling when she's taught that she speaks Korean. I’m like nope it's just baby babbles like I don't know what to tell you. Like there's lots of things that I realized that I didn't deal with, so my anger has gone down because there's times when you just fire it up. You're like wow the other stuff it. Yeah I don't deal with that, because I’m just in my own world, walking the dog, eating my lunch, meeting up my friends, with my friends for lunch and then just doing this all day on a computer and then shutting it. (...)
 
Allison S: Yeah.
 
Participant 30: With Zoom, there's not as much.
 
Allison S: Yeah, I was going to say um have you…uh you mentioned the walking down the river and hearing somebody say that, you know, you were the reason for coronavirus. Has there been any other impact of like the different you know anti-Asian violence and anti-Asian hate increases? Or do you feel like that's just something that you're aware of, but maybe hasn't impacted you as much?
 
Participant 30: It's always… People always say that they're like has it gotten worse than like it's always been there. It's just talking about it, I mean I have so many example like my husband and I getting milkshakes at the farm show, and we're in a crowded place and somebody, we still don't know who it is, just stuck their head between us and let go home you fucking gook, and I just like looked around and my husband's like “who said that.” I’m like “Stan, just leave it alone like.” There have been so many instances of things. We have our neighbor coming over to stimuli “what world did you bring her back from?” and he's like “what??” “Does she speak English?” I’m like I’m right here. I’m an English teacher was like there's these asinine comments that happen all the time um. And like people are like did it get worse? I’m like no. It's just it's different now. People call me coronavirus, and maybe after the coronavirus goes away, they'll go back to the usual "go back to China”, but like it's just as always been there. Sadly yeah.
 
Allison S: So yeah, is there anything else about your job or your workplace or your life that we haven't discussed that you would want to talk about?
 
Participant 30: No I think we've covered a lot.
 
Allison S: You have a lot of story.
 
Participant 30: Oh, my gosh! I wish I didn't.
 
Allison S: Yeah, yeah.
 
Participant 30: Therapy so heavily.
 
Allison S: Man, I can only imagine the therapy is great. Um I have a few demographic questions for you, that I think most of these have come out but um can you remind me again where you're located currently?
 
Participant 30: Harrisburg, Harrisburg Pennsylvania.
 
Allison S: In Harrisburg. Oh right Okay, I like your acronym also happy that's amazing. 
 
Participant 30: Yes, people get very annoying I’m else with happy Thursday. Hope your life is filled with every time I put that everyone's like dear God Participant 30 and it's getting too much.
 
Allison S: Puns are great now people just need to roll with it. um you where were you born again and where did you grow up.
 
Participant 30: Born and raised in Philadelphia.
 
Allison S: Philadelphia okay. Your age?
 
Participant 30: I will be 40 in October, so I can still say 39.
 
Allison S: I’m also born in October. A good month.
 
Participant 30: October is when I thrive best. it's the weather, my skin hair, everything just seems to be thriving in October.
 
Allison S: Yeah it's a good month um, and you said, your ethnic background is Korean and your parents were born in Korea but you were born here, so you’re second generation. 
 
Participant: Mhm. (Agreed) 
 
Allison S: And then last you already have your gender pronouns she her on your zoom profile, so that's perfect. yeah that's it for my questions. Thank you so so much for sharing everything. That was wow. You have so many stories and I’m sorry that you do seems really hard, but I hope that your upcoming job is it's better. I really do.
 
Participant 30: I hope so and I told (a friend) that she can email our happy group with your information if you're still doing this like, if you want to draft an email I’m happy, I totally and it's more meaningful to comes from her from you versus me. So if you, I know that, like are happy community has a ton of AAPI professionals who you know might be interested as well, so if you wanted to just say “hi you know I talked to Participant 30” and then I can forward that to the group to help you out yeah.
 
Allison S: That would be great yeah I’ll send you an email, and I have like a little flyer blurb thing that I can attach as well um yeah I know that would be amazing and I’m going to continue to do these interviews probably through fall for a little bit. well. Yeah, yeah as they come up. Yeah anyway Thank you again.


